---
categories: [Life]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Doing wrong does not disqualify you from having a future and purpose in life
  in the eyes of the Lord.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/71051414-404ce600-2116-11ea-9731-3dc98f015642.jpg
---

> Esau held a grudge against Jacob because of the blessing his father had given
him. He said to himself, “The days of mourning for my father are near; then I
will kill my brother Jacob.” <cite>Genesis 27:41 NIV</cite>

Esau held a grudge against his younger brother, Jacob, because of the blessing
that their father, Isaac, gave to Jacob. Esau begrudged Jacob so much such that
Esau harbored thoughts of killing him. Now, as mentioned in a previous message,
whilst it is okay to be angry at sin (such as immorality, injustice, and ungodly
behavior), do not let that anger lead you to sin by begrudging them and
resenting them because of their actions. For, when you nurture and cultivate the
seed of anger that has been planted within you, it may bear fruit and cause you
to sin. Apparently, Esau did not get that memo. Instead of letting go of his
anger at Jacob's actions, Esau nurtured his anger; and this anger bloomed
thoughts of killing his younger brother.

> When Rebekah was told what her older son Esau had said, she sent for her
younger son Jacob and said to him, “Your brother Esau is planning to avenge
himself by killing you. Now then, my son, do what I say: Flee at once to my
brother Laban in Harran. Stay with him for a while until your brother’s fury
subsides. <cite>Genesis 27:42-44 NIV</cite>

Esau's plan to kill Jacob made its way to their mother, Rebekah. Not wanting to
see his plans come to pass, Rebekah told Jacob to flee at once and take refuge
in the home of her brother, Laban, in Harran. And I reckon that, if Jacob did
not flee to his uncle's home, then he would have suffered the same fate as Abel.
As it was mentioned in a previous post, one day, whilst they were in the field,
Cain killed Abel because of the seed of anger that he harboured and nurtured and
cultivated within him. I reckon that, if Jacob did not flee to his uncle's home,
then Esau, a skillful hunter and man of the field, would have lured his brother
Jacob, a mild-mannered person with a quiet temperament who preferred to stay at
home, out to the field to kill him in a similar manner to how Cain lured Abel
out to the field and killed him.

Esau held a grudge against his younger brother, Jacob, because of the blessing
that their father, Isaac, gave to Jacob. This is because the blessing that their
father, Isaac, gave to Jacob was originally meant for Esau. However, Jacob, at
the behest of his mother Rebekah, schemed to deceive his father, Isaac, into
giving Esau's blessing to him. Jacob was able to take the blessing that was
originally meant for his older brother, Esau, because their father, Isaac, was
old and blind. And one day, Isaac told Esau to hunt some wild game and prepare
some savory food for him to eat; and afterwards, Isaac was going to bless Esau.
Rebekah heard Isaac say this to Esau. So she told Jacob to get two goats from
the flock so that she may make savory food for him to bring to his father; and
then receive the blessing that was meant for Esau. And to pull off her scheme,
Rebekah took the best clothes of Esau her older son, which she had in the house,
and put them on her younger son Jacob. She also covered his hands and the smooth
part of his neck with the goatskins (Genesis 27:15-16 NIV) so that Jacob, who is
smooth-skinned, would feel like Esau, who is hairy, to Isaac if he touched him.

When the food was prepared, Jacob brought it to Isaac. Then Isaac said to Jacob,
“Please come near, that I may feel you, my son, to know whether you are really
my son Esau or not.” So Jacob went near to Isaac his father, who felt him and
said, “The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau” (Genesis
27:21-22 ESV). As mentioned in a previous message, when you cultivate a
relationship with the Lord God by praying to and communing with Him (as well as
reading of the Scriptures), you shall become familiar with the Lord God’s voice,
such that, even though you do not see Him, you shall know that it is Him that is
speaking to you. Well, Isaac had a relationship with his son Jacob. As such,
even  though Isaac's eyes were too dim to see Jacob, he was still able to
recognize that the voice that he heard was Jacob's voice. Nevertheless,
irregardless of Isaac's skepticism that the person before him was actually Esau,
Isaac chose to give the person before him the blessing meant for Esau.

Now, as an outside observer, you may have no sympathy for Jacob; and because of
what he did, you may not care about Jacob. Instead, you may think that Jacob
deserves to pay consequences for his actions---deceiving Isaac, his father, and
stealing the blessing meant for Esau, his brother. Well, the Lord is not like
you. As mentioned in a previous post, the Lord cares about the wicked. Likewise,
the Lord knows that you are imperfect---that you are going to make mistakes and
do things that He does not endorse. Whilst the world may see your actions as
reason to shun you from society, the Lord sees you as someone in need to be
enveloped with His love. For, as mentioned in a previous post, we who are
imperfect are perfect emissaries of God’s love and forgiveness and acceptance
and grace of all. In fact, those who have made more mistakes have had more
opportunities to experience God's love and forgiveness than those who have made
less mistakes in their lives. (Now, just to be clear, this is not a suggestion
for you to purposely make mistakes so that you experience God's love and
forgiveness.)

As mentioned previously, the people of this world think that those who do wrongs
do not deserve their sympathy or love. Instead, people of this world, in this
day and age, think that those who do wrong should be shunned from the presence
of and isolated from the rest of society like a restless wanderer (or vagabond).
The people of this world think that those who do wrong do not deserve to have a
future and purpose in life; instead, they should live the rest of their lives
without purpose like restless wanderers or vagabonds. But the Lord is not like
you. Not only does the Lord think that those who do wrong deserve His love and
sympathy, the Lord also has a future and purpose for those who do wrong. Doing
wrong does not disqualify you from having a future and purpose in life in the
eyes of the Lord.

As mentioned above, Rebekah told Jacob to flee at once and take refuge in the
home of her brother, Laban, in Harran, until Esau's fury subsides. On his way to
Harran, Jacob stopped at a certain place to rest for the night; and he had a
dream of a ladder that went from the earth to the heavens. And there above it
stood the Lord, and he said: “I am the Lord, the God of your father Abraham and
the God of Isaac. I will give you and your descendants the land on which you are
lying. Your descendants will be like the dust of the earth, and you will spread
out to the west and to the east, to the north and to the south. All peoples on
earth will be blessed through you and your offspring. I am with you and will
watch over you wherever you go, and I will bring you back to this land. I will
not leave you until I have done what I have promised you” (Genesis 28:13-15 NIV).
Irregardless of what Jacob did in the past, the Lord had a plan, a purpose, and
a future for him.

Ergo, to those who have done wrong and made mistakes: those wrongs do not
preclude you from having a future and purpose in life. Irregardless of the
wrongs that you have done and mistakes that you have made, the Lord still has a
plan and purpose and future for your life. The people of this world may think
that you do not deserve to have a future. But the Lord is not like them. Just
believe that the Lord is with you and will not leave you until His plans and
future and purpose for your life are fulfilled in a similar manner to how the
Lord told Jacob that He would be with him and not leave him until He has done
what He promised him.

God bless.
