---
categories: [Culture]
tags: [Cancel Culture, Anger, Injustice, Love, Reconciliation]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  The seed of anger may be planted within us. And if we allow it to linger, it
  may grow and bear fruit in the process of time as it is being nurtured and
  cultivated within us.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/66965347-591e1a00-f047-11e9-8ce0-b4132b73ac6f.jpg
---

> Be angry [at sin---at immorality, at injustice, at ungodly behavior], yet do
not sin; do not let your anger [cause you shame, nor allow it to] last until the
sun goes down.
>
And do not give the devil an opportunity [to lead you into sin by holding a
grudge, or nurturing anger, or harboring resentment, or cultivating bitterness].
<cite>Ephesians 4:26-27 AMP</cite>

As mentioned in the previous message, do not begrudge those who wronged you or
did things that you do not agree with. While it is okay to be angry at sin (such
as immorality, injustice, and ungodly behavior), do not let that anger lead you
to sin by begrudging them and resenting them because of their action. Rather, as
it was mentioned in the previous post, love and forgive them irregardless of
whether or not they expressed remorse or atoned for their action. For, wouldn't
it be quite ironic (or hypocritical, perhaps) if your anger led you yourself to
sin?

Such a situation happened to a man named Cain.

> Cain presented an offering to the Lord from the land’s crops while Abel
presented his flock’s oldest offspring with their fat. The Lord looked favorably
on Abel and his sacrifice but didn’t look favorably on Cain and his sacrifice.
Cain became very angry and looked resentful.
>
The Lord said to Cain, “Why are you angry, and why do you look so resentful? If
you do the right thing, won’t you be accepted? But if you don’t do the right
thing, sin will be waiting at the door ready to strike! It will entice you, but
you must rule over it.” <cite>Genesis 4:3-7 CEB</cite>

Cain and Abel were brothers. Cain was a farmer whilst Abel was a shepherd. Each
had a different job as each had a different calling from the Lord and purpose in
life. Now, this is not too different from the members of a church. A church may
be considered a family and its members may be considered siblings---brothers and
sisters---in Christ. Like Cain and Abel, each member of the family may have a
different job (or ministry) as each member may have a different calling from the
Lord and purpose in life. For example, some members of a church may be called to
be a pastor or priest whilst others may be called to be ushers. Some members of
a church may be called to be a worship leader whilst other members are called to
be a prophet. And similarly to Cain, members of a church may become angry and
resentful.

To whom was Cain's anger and resentment directed at? I reckon that it was
directed at the Lord. And why was Cain's anger and resentment directed at the
Lord? I reckon it was because the Lord looked favorably upon Abel and his
sacrifice but didn't look favorably upon Cain and his sacrifice. Both Cain and
Abel laboured for the Lord. Both Cain and Abel got results from their work. Yet,
the Lord favored Abel over Cain. From Cain's perspective, this was unjust. And
because of this seeming unfairness, he became very angry at the injustice and
resentful of the Lord.

Such a scenario may happen to members of a church. Different members of a church
may labour for the Lord. Each of them may produce results. And even though each
member produces results, it can seem like the Lord is favoring one member of the
church over another. This perception that the Lord favors some members of a
church moreso than others can manifest if it seems like the Lord blessed some
members of a church moreso than others. For example, maybe the Lord has blessed
a member of the church by giving them a new home or work promotion or family
while another member of the church who has been praying for such things for a
long time have not received such a blessing from the Lord. Then it can seem like
the Lord favors one member of the church moreso than others. This may seem
unjust to the seemingly unfavored members of the church. Because of this, the
seemingly unfavored members of the church may become angry at this seeming
injustice and resentful of the Lord.

Cain let his anger linger. Cain was still angry by the time the sun went down
(when he went to sleep) and Cain was still angry when the sun went up (when he
arose from his slumber), thereby giving the devil an opportunity to lead him to
sin. And that is what happened to Cain in this case. One day Cain suggested to
his brother, “Let’s go out into the fields.” And while they were in the field,
Cain attacked his brother, Abel, and killed him (Genesis 4:8 NLT). The seed of
anger was planted within Cain. He let it linger. In the process of time, it grew
and bore fruit because Cain nurtured and cultivated the seed of anger that he
harbored within him. Of all people, Cain should have known that this would
happen; he was a farmer! And as any farmer worth their salt knows, when you
plant a seed in [fertile ground][1], it shall grow and eventually bear fruit if
you nurture and cultivate it.

Now, what happened to Cain may happen to us. When we see that the Lord seemingly
favours other members of the church moreso than us, the seed of anger may be
planted within us. And if we allow it to linger beyond sun down, it may grow and
bear fruit in the process of time as it is being nurtured and cultivated within
us. And when that happens, like Cain, we may attack the brothers and sisters in
Christ who seem to be favoured by the Lord moreso than us. We may not physically
attack them like how Cain physically attacked Abel; rather, we may [verbally][2]
attack them. And we may not kill them in a like manner to how Cain killed Abel;
rather, we may try to kill different aspects of their life---such as their
ministry, or their relationships, or their reputation (character assassination),
and the like.

Yes! The anger that leads to sin that you see happening on a macro scale in this
world also happens on a micro scale in church communities. That is because
people who labour for Christ in a church are no different from people who labour
for a company in the world. As mentioned in the previous post, we are all humans
who are imperfect and live messy lives full of mistakes, regrets, failures, pain,
and trials and tribulations. And that includes those who labour for Christ in a
church. This may come as a surprise to some people (believers and non-believers
alike) who expect labourers for the Lord to be saintly in character, in speech,
in actions, and in all spheres of their life. So it can be surprising, even
disappointing, when a labourer for the Lord does not meet a person's expectation
of them. Because of this, believers can become disillusioned and turn away from
the Lord. Likewise, non-believers can charge labourers and believers of the Lord
with hypocrisy.

Now, it may seem counterintuitive for the Lord to use us imperfect people to be
His emissaries, since the Lord's mission is for all to know and believe in Jesus.
Therefore, it may seem counterintuitive to use people who others can point to as
the reason that they do not believe or stopped believing. But, there is a wisdom
to the Lord using us imperfect people as His emissaries, for we who are imperfect
are perfect messengers of God's love and forgiveness and acceptance and grace of
all. Even though we emissaries are imperfect, God still loves us. And, even
though we emissaries make mistakes, God forgives us. Even though we emissaries,
through our words and actions, turn people away from God, God still welcomes and
accepts us as part of His family. And even though we emissaries may fail to show
grace and mercy to others, God still shows us grace and mercy. Thus, people may
look at our imperfectness as a testament of God's perfect love and forgiveness
and acceptance and grace for all.

A person may get fired for making a mistake whilst working as a representative
for a company. (See [Sacco, Justine][3].) In contrast, when we make a mistake
whilst working as an emissary for the Lord, we shall not be canceled (fired)
because the Lord does not expect us to be perfect. Thus, you should not try to
cancel people because you think they are not good emissaries of Christ; nor
should you try to cancel people who labour in other domains (such as politicians
and athletes and celebs and leaders and members of the media and business execs
and the like) as you should not expect anyone to be perfect. If you try to
cancel someone because of your anger at them, then you become no different from
Cain who canceled (as in, killed) Abel.

> You have come to Jesus, the one who mediates the new covenant between God and
people, and to the sprinkled blood, which speaks of forgiveness instead of
crying out for vengeance like the blood of Abel. <cite>Hebrews 12:24 NLT</cite>

Near the beginning of this post I rhetorically asked if it would be ironic if
your anger at a person led you yourself to sin. The answer, of course, is yes.
The irony is that the anger that you directed at the people who sinned in your
eyes (were immoral, unjust, or behaved in an ungodly manner) can now be directed
at you. The irony is that the price that you felt others should pay for their
injustices can now be demanded from you. That is basically what happened to Cain
after he sinned because of his anger. The blood of Abel cried out for vengeance
against Cain. The blood of Abel cried out for Cain to pay for his actions. And
that is what happened. The Lord handed out His sentence. Then Cain said to the
Lord, “My punishment is more than I can bear. Today you are driving me from the
land, and I will be hidden from your presence; I will be a restless wanderer on
the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me.” (Genesis 4:13-14 NIV) That, to me,
is the exact same sentence that people of this world try to impose upon others
who have wronged them or done things that they do not agree with. The people of
this world, in this day and age, try to \#cancel others by driving them away so
that they live the rest of their lives hidden from the presence of and [isolated
from the rest of society][4] like a restless wanderer (or vagabond).

Cain thought that whoever finds him will kill him (like how he killed Abel). The
Lord replied, “No, for I will give a sevenfold punishment to anyone who kills
you.” Then the Lord put a mark on Cain to warn anyone who might try to kill him
(Genesis 4:15 NLT). And that is because it is not for other people to judge and
mete out punishment for others' sins. That is a job for the Lord. So the Lord
put a mark on Cain to warn people to not take justice into their own hands by
killing him. Therefore, neither should we try to take justice into our own hands
by trying to cancel people. Instead, we should leave it up to the Lord because
that is His job; and He is just.

The blood of Abel cried out for vengeance. The blood of Jesus, however, speaks
forgiveness. Because of the blood that Jesus shed on the cross, we shall not be
canceled (as in forsaken or abandoned) by Him, irregardless of what other people
may [opine][5]. Now, just because believers are not canceled by Jesus does not
mean that believers do not face real-world consequences for their actions. We
surely do! But irregardless of our mistakes, the Lord shall always love us and
forgives us and accept us as part of His family, rather than driving us away and
isolating us from Him like how the people of this world try to drive away and
isolate from society those they want canceled. That is the message that He has
given us emissaries to spread. That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world
to Himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and He has committed the
message of reconciliation to us (2 Corinthians 5:19 HCSB). Therefore, reconcile
between those who have wronged you or done things that you do not agree with,
rather than counting their trespasses against them, in the same manner that the
Lord has reconciled with you and not counted your trespasses against you.

God bless.

[1]: {% link _posts/2018-12-12-parable-of-the-sower.md %}
[2]: {% link _posts/2018-11-14-locusts.md %}
[3]: https://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/15/magazine/how-one-stupid-tweet-ruined-justine-saccos-life.html
     "How One Stupid Tweet Blew Up Justine Sacco’s Life"
[4]: {% link _posts/2018-11-21-a-tale-of-two-brothers.md %}
[5]: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2019/09/19/virtues-our-cancel-culture/
     "Yes, God cancels people, and we can, too"
