---
categories: [World]
tags: [Refuge]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  There are many whom God plans to use mightily. But they are currently lost and
  astray. They just need some help to get back on track.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/52542537-b81be880-2d6e-11e9-8650-c48e6b1cbb5e.jpg
---

> The following night, the Lord stood by him and said, "Have courage! For as you
have testified about Me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome."
<cite>Acts 23:11 HCSB</cite>

As mentioned in the previous story, each and every one of us are on a journey in
this life. The certain man was on a journey from Jerusalem to Jericho. And the
certain priest, Levite, and certain Samaritan who came across that certain man
were on a journey from one place to another. And today, we shall see that
Apostle Paul was also on a journey. Apostle Paul was on a journey from Jerusalem
to Rome since the Lord planned for him to testify regarding Him in Rome,
similarly to how he testified about Him in Jerusalem. In this journey of his,
Apostle Paul encountered some obstacles. For one, whilst in Jerusalem, a mob of
people conspired with the chief priests and elders to ambush and kill him. The
chief priests and elders, along with the rest of the council, planned to suggest
to the commander of the Roman troops to bring Apostle Paul to them so that they
may make further inquiries concerning him. (For, at this point in his life,
Apostle Paul was being held in a barrack.) And if they did that, then a mob of
people planned to ambush and kill him. This may not be too different from the
certain man from the previous story who was attacked and beaten by thieves that
ambushed him. The difference is that Apostle Paul did not fall for their plans
since the son of Paul's sister heard of their [planned] ambush, and he went to
the barracks and told Paul (Acts 23:16 AMP). In other words, Apostle Paul was
told in advance that doing a certain something (going to testify in front of the
chief priests and elders) would surely result in his death. The certain man, on
the other hand, was not forewarned that he would fall among thieves whilst on
his journey, resulting in the death of his health. I reckon this is because
Apostle Paul had cultivated a relationship with the Lord God whilst the certain
man had not built a relationship with the Lord God. For, as it was mentioned in
a previous story, when you build a relationship with the Lord God, He may
forewarn you when doing something shall certainly result in death (not
necessarily of your life but maybe some aspect of your life) so that you may
avoid doing that which shall certainly result in death. Apostle Paul was
forewarned about the mob's intention to ambush and kill him. And because he
listened to this forewarning, he was able to avoid certain death by informing
the commander of the Roman troops about the mob's planned ambush. For, when the
commander of the Roman troops was informed of the mob's intention to ambush and
kill Apostle Paul, he summoned two of the centurions and said, "Get ready to
leave by nine o'clock tonight for Caesarea with two hundred soldiers, seventy
horsemen, and two hundred spearmen. Also provide mounts for Paul to ride, and
take him safely to Felix the governor" (Acts 23:23–34 NRSV). And after Apostle
Paul was escorted to Caesarea, he stayed there for a couple of years as a
prisoner for his beliefs.

> When it was decided that we would sail for Italy, Paul and some other
prisoners were handed over to a centurion named Julius, who belonged to the
Imperial Regiment. <cite>Acts 27:1 NIV</cite>

At some point in time, it was decided that Apostle Paul should sail to Italy.
Therefore, he and other prisoners were handed over to a centurion named Julius.
They encountered some strong headwinds along their journey. Now, this may not be
too different from us. Along our journey, we too may face some obstacles or
winds that threaten to impede and slow our progress. Of course, as mentioned
previously, when you cultivate a relationship with the Lord God, He may warn you
in advance when doing something shall certainly result in death. Paul had built
a relationship with the Lord God. From this relationship that he built, Apostle
Paul saw that the voyage will end with disaster and much loss, not only of the
cargo and ship, but also their lives. Nevertheless the centurion was more
persuaded by the helmsman and the owner of the ship than by the things spoken by
Paul (Acts 27:10–11 NKJV). As mentioned in previous stories, the Lord God may
tell you one thing whilst other people (such as friends, family, or colleagues)
may tell you something else. When that happens, you have a choice to make: to
believe and follow the advice that the Lord God gave you or believe and follow
the advice that others gave you. I recommend for you to always believe and
follow the advice that the Lord God gives you. However, the centurion chose to
believe and follow the advice of the helmsman and the owner of the ship. Thus,
they continued on their journey. And because of their decision, their journey
faced obstacles and difficulties and disasters and much loss.

This is not to imply that all obstacles and difficulties and disasters and
losses that you experience are a result of not believing and following the
advice that the Lord God gave to you. For, as mentioned in a previous story,
sometimes things ought to happen in a certain way so that God's plans for your
life may come to pass. And when this is the case, you have a choice to make: to
put your trust in the Lord God by following His way to fulfill His plans for
your life, or for you to not trust in the Lord God. I recommend that you trust
in the Lord God, even though you may not understand what He asks of you. Before
heading down to Jerusalem, Apostle Paul was with companions. While with them, he
was forewarned about what would happen if he were to go there when a certain
prophet named Agabus came down from Judea. And coming to us, he took Paul's belt
and bound his own feet and hands, and said, "This is what the Holy Spirit says:
'In this way the Jews at Jerusalem will bind the man who owns this belt and
deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles'" (Acts 21:10–11 NASB). Apostle Paul
was forewarned that he would be bounded in Jerusalem and imprisoned. Given this
information, he had a decision to make: to trust in the Lord God and follow His
plans for his life, or to not trust in the Lord God. I recommend that you always
trust in the Lord God. Apostle Paul chose to trust in the Lord God by going down
to Jerusalem even though he was aware of the difficulties that were to come in
his life. I suggest you do likewise. Apostle Paul could have decided not to go
to Jerusalem and thus avoid the difficulties that awaited him. Likewise, you can
decide to avoid going down a certain path that you know is fraught with
difficulties. In other words, you may choose the easy route. However, deciding
to take the easy route may result in the plans that the Lord God has for your
life not being fulfilled. Likewise, if Apostle Paul chose the easy route by not
going down to Jerusalem to avoid the difficulties that he would have
experienced, then the plans that the Lord God had for his life may not have been
fulfilled.

> Once ashore, we then learned that the island was called Malta. The local
people showed us extraordinary kindness, for they lit a fire and took us all in,
since it was raining and cold. <cite>Acts 28:1–2 HCSB</cite>

The ship that Apostle Paul and other prisoners, sailors, centurion, and soldiers
were on ran aground on a certain island. Once they were ashore, they learned
that the island was called Malta. which is not their intended destination. Their
intended destination was Italy. However, along the way they strayed from their
journey and became lost as they encountered obstacles and difficulties. This may
not be too different from us. We too may stray and get lost along our journey in
life as we encounter some obstacles and difficulties. And this is not too
different from the certain man who faced difficulties whilst on his journey from
Jerusalem to Jericho. As mentioned in the previous story, after the certain man
fell among thieves, a couple of people came across him: a certain priest, a
Levite, and a certain Samaritan. When the certain priest and Levite encountered
the certain man, they ignored him and avoided him. Similarly to the certain
priest and Levite, the local people of Malta could have ignored and avoided the
people who were aboard the ship that ran aground on their island. However, they
did not. Instead, like the certain Samaritan, when the local people of Malta
encountered the people from the ship that ran aground, they showed extraordinary
kindness to them, for they lit a fire and took them all in since it was raining
and cold. In addition to kindling a fire, they welcomed them and entertained
them hospitably. And when they were ready to continue their journey to their
intended destination, the local people of Malta furnished them with the supplies
that they needed. Similarly to the local people of Malta, you too may come
across people who have strayed from their destination and become lost while on
their journey because of the obstacles and difficulties that they have faced.
And when you do that, you have a decision to make: to help those whom you
encounter who are in need of help in a similar manner to how the local people of
Malta (and the certain Samaritan when he came across the certain man who fell
among thieves) did, or to ignore and avoid those people in a similar manner to
how the certain priest and Levite ignored and avoided the certain man. I suggest
that you follow the example of the local people of Malta by helping those whom
you encounter who are in need of help by showing them extraordinary kindness and
providing for their needs. Not only would you be a blessing to those people, you
would also be blessed by those you help. For, the chief official of the island
was a man named Publius. As it happened, Publius's father was ill with fever and
dysentery. Paul went in and prayed for him, and laying his hands on him, he
healed him. Then all the other sick people on the island came and were healed
(Acts 28:8–9 NLT). For, in addition to being a blessing to those on the ship
that ran aground, the local people of Malta were also blessed. Publius's father
was healed and all the other sick people on the island were healed. The local
people of Malta were all blessed in a different manner to the blessings that
they gave to the people who were on the ship. The people who were aboard the
ship were blessed by the local people of Malta's extraordinary kindness and
generosity. The local people of Malta were blessed vis-à-vis healing of their
sicknesses. Similar to the local people of Malta, when you show extraordinary
kindness and generosity to people in need whom you encounter, you shall be
blessed. Maybe not in the same manner that you bless others, but in a different
manner. (Now, just to be clear: you should not expect to receive anything in
return when you show extraordinary kindness to those who are in need. Although
the local people of Malta were blessed for showing extraordinary kindness and
generosity to the people who were on the ship, they did not expect to receive
anything in return. Those people on the ship had nothing; all was lost in the
shipwreck. Yet, the local people of Malta still showed kindness and generosity
whilst expecting nothing in return. And so, do likewise.)

> It was three months after the shipwreck that we set sail on another ship that
had wintered at the island---an Alexandrian ship with the twin gods as its
figurehead. <cite>Acts 28:11 NLT</cite>

Three months after getting lost and going astray from their destination because
of the obstacles and difficulties that they experienced, those who were on the
ship resumed their journey. Likewise, those in need whom you encounter may
eventually get back on track in their journey in life because of the
extraordinary kindness and generosity that you showed them. Now, one of the
persons that the local people of Malta showed kindness and generosity to was
Apostle Paul, whom the Lord used mightily to testify about Him to multitudes in
Rome. The Lord planned to use Apostle Paul mightily for the kingdom of God. Yet,
he was lost and astray from his intended destination whilst on his journey. If
it were not for the local people of Malta, he may not have gotten back on track
in his journey. Likewise, there are many people whom God has plans to use
mightily for His kingdom. Yet, they are currently lost and have astray from
their intended destination because of some obstacles and difficulties that they
have encountered. And they are just in need of some help to get back on track
from someone who is willing to show them extraordinary kindness and generosity.
Therefore, I suggest for you to help those in need whom you encounter so that
they may get back on track in their journey in life. The local people of Malta
did not know that the Lord had great plans for Apostle Paul. When they first met
him, they thought that he was just a murderer. And yet, irregardless of what
they thought, they helped him to get back on track in his journey. And Apostle
Paul was used mightily by God. In a similar manner, there are many people who
God has plans to use mightily for His kingdom. Like the local people of Malta,
it could be people who we judge to be murderers and the like. People who we
think is undeserving of our help. However, similarly to the local people of
Malta, irregardless of our judgement of others, we ought to show them
extraordinary kindness and generosity, that they may get back on track in their
journey, where they may be used mightily by God.

As you may have heard, there are a multitude of people who journey from one place
to another with the hopes of being granted asylum. And similarly to how Apostle
Paul was in danger of being killed in Jerusalem, the people who make the
perilous journey to seek asylum may do so because they are hated and persecuted
and unsafe in their home country of residence. Along their journey, they may
encounter obstacles and difficulties. In spite of the obstacles and difficulties
that these people may encounter, they eventually reach a place. And when they
do, the local people have a choice to make: to help those who arrive at their
border or to ignore and not help those who arrive at their border. I suggest
that you help those who arrive at your border. The local people of Malta did not
expect that there would be a ship of people arriving at their sea border. And
yet, they took them in and showed them extraordinary kindness and generosity
even though they were prisoners and Apostle Paul was thought to be a murderer.
Likewise, you may think that the migrants that journey to your border are
murderers or other people that you deem unseemly. Yet, irregardless or your
thoughts on those who come to your border, I reckon that you should to follow
the example that the local people of Malta set by welcoming them into your home
(country). In that way you may help them get back on track in their journey in
their life. God has great plans for them. God has plans to use them mightily for
His kingdom, just like Apostle Paul. They just need some help. Will you help
them to get back on track in their journey in life?

God bless.
