---
categories: [Culture]
tags: [Cancel Culture, Be Kind To One Another]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Showing unconditional kindness to all has become a contemptible quality for a
  person to possess in this day and age.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/67540997-61b0c900-f6b5-11e9-8301-6b13b8dd0ef3.jpg
---

Charlotte Jones, the daughter of the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, invited day
time talk show host and Green Bay Packers supporter Ellen DeGeneres and her
spouse, Portia de Rossi, to the owner's private suite to watch a football game
between those two teams. Also invited to watch the game in the owner's private
suite were the former president of the United States of America, George W. Bush,
and his wife, Laura; they were seated next to Ellen and Portia. A picture of
these two pairs of people sitting beside each other began circulating on the
Internet. When people saw that picture of them together, people expressed their
opinions via tweets and think pieces. People expressed their discontent that the
talk show host would associate with, not to mention be friends with, the former
president. And the people also expressed their puzzlement as to why she would be
friends with someone who has not been a friend to the LGBTQ+ community, not to
mention the laundry list of other [crimes, misdeeds, and abuses of power][1]
that have been cited as a reason to [shun him][2] like a leper rather than
associate with him.

During the monologue of her day time talk show, Ellen replied to some of the
opinions expressed about her association with George. Ellen [replied][3] to
them, "When we were invited, I was aware that I was going to be surrounded with
people from very different views and beliefs. But just because I don't agree
with someone on everything doesn't mean that I'm not going to be friends with
them. When I say, 'be kind to one another,' I don't mean be kind to the people
who think the same way you do. I mean be kind to everyone." Her reply elicited
more tweets and think pieces expressing a variety of opinions, including the
idea that showing [unconditional kindness][4] (or [niceness][5]) to all is a
contemptible quality for a person to possess in this day and age.

This is not the first time that such a situation has happened, of course. What
happened to Ellen, in fact, is not too different from what happened to Jesus. A
man named Levi threw a great banquet for Jesus in his home. A large number of
tax collectors and others sat down to eat with them (Luke 5:29 CEB). Like Ellen,
Jesus was invited by a person---in this case, Levi---to their private home for a
great banquet that he was throwing. And similarly to how others (like George W.
Bush) were also invited to watch the football game in the private suite, a large
number of tax collectors and other disreputable people were also invited to the
great banquet that was being thrown at Levi's home. And similarly to how Ellen
was seated next to George W. Bush, Jesus was seated around the other invited
guests; and He ate with them.

Similarly to Ellen and George, people---in this case, Pharisees and their
scribes---saw Jesus seated around tax collectors and others. They expressed
discontent that Jesus would be associating with such people. The Pharisees and
their scribes [seeing those with whom He was associating] began murmuring in
discontent to His disciples, asking, “Why are you eating and drinking with the
tax collectors and sinners?” (Luke 5:30 AMP) Tax collectors, in that day and
age, were seen as corrupt and traitorous. They were seen as corrupt because they
would demand people to pay more taxes than necessary; and enrich themselves by
keeping the difference. They were seen as traitorous by Jews because they were
Jews who worked for the Romans to collect taxes from the Jews. Because of this
list of misdeeds and abuses of power, people expressed puzzlement as to why
Jesus would associate with tax collectors and other disreputable people.

Similarly to Ellen, Jesus responded to the opinions expressed by the Pharisees
and their scribes in regards to His association with the tax collectors and the
sinners. Jesus replied to them, “It is not those who are healthy who need a
physician, but [only] those who are sick. I did not come to call the
[self-proclaimed] righteous [who see no need to repent], but sinners to
repentance [to change their old way of thinking, to turn from sin and to seek
God and His righteousness]” (Luke 5:31-32 AMP). Similarly to Ellen, Jesus knew
that He would be surrounded with people from very different views and beliefs.
And like Ellen, just because Jesus [doesn't agree][6] with someone on everything
or endorse their actions doesn't mean that He shall shun them like a leper
rather than associate with them. That is because shunning and shaming people is
not the way to change a person's old way of thinking, nor is it the way to turn
them from sin to seeking God and His righteousness; instead, as mentioned in a
previous post, love is the way. That is why Jesus is willing to associate with
and befriend tax collectors and sinners rather than shun them.

In fact, such a change happened to Levi. One day, as Jesus left the town [that
He was in], he saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at his tax collector’s
booth. “Follow me and be my disciple,” Jesus said to him. So Levi got up, left
everything, and followed him (Luke 5:27-28 NLT). Jesus knew that Levi was a tax
collector because he was sitting at his tax collector's booth. Therefore, Jesus
surely knew that Levi was a disreputable person in the eyes of people in that
day and age. Yet, Jesus did not shun Levi or shame him or ignore him as He was
walking by. Instead, Jesus took the time and effort to befriend Levi. Jesus took
the time and effort to compel Levi to turn from his old (sinful, corrupt) ways,
and to instead seek God and His righteousness by following Jesus and becoming
His disciple (student and adherer to Jesus' teachings and practices). And that
is basically what did happen. Levi got up, left everything, and followed Jesus.
That does not happen if Jesus chooses to shun or shame or ignore Levi; it only
happened because Jesus chose to engage with and befriend him. And I reckon that
Levi invited other tax collectors and sinners to the banquet that he threw for
Jesus in his home so that Jesus could have an opportunity to compel other tax
collectors and sinners to turn from their old ways in the same manner that Jesus
compelled Levi to. But such an opportunity would not exist if Jesus chose to
shun Levi because of his disreputable character---in the same manner the people
of this world think it is proper to shun disreputable people---rather than take
the opportunity to engage with and befriend him.

Levi was a tax collector. Corrupt and traitorous in the eyes of people in that
day and age. And yet, Jesus called Levi to follow Him and be His disciple. And
that is because, as it was mentioned in the previous post, you do not have to be
perfect (saintly in your character, speech, and actions) before you may become a
laborer for the Lord. Rather, our imperfectness is a perfect testament of God's
perfect love and forgiveness and acceptance and grace for all. For, we who are
imperfect, and yet labour for the Lord, may point to ourselves and say, "I am
not perfect yet God still loves me; I am not perfect yet God did not shun nor
forsake me. I have done wrongs yet God has forgiven me. I am living proof of
God's love and forgiveness and acceptance and grace for all." As an imperfect
people, that is a message that we are well-equipped to spread as His emissaries.
So it is sensible that Jesus would invite Levi to follow Him and be a disciple.
Levi, because of his past actions, can be a living testament of the power of
God's love and forgiveness and acceptance and grace for all to change a person's
old ways of thinking and doing.

In fact, Levi was not the first person of disreputable character that Jesus
called to follow Him and be His disciple. Earlier, Jesus spake to a multitude of
people from the boat of a fisherman named Simon Peter. When He had stopped
speaking, He said to Simon, “Launch out into the deep and let down your nets for
a catch” (Luke 5:4 NKJV). And when they had done this, they caught a great
number of fish, and their net was breaking (Luke 5:6 NKJV). When Simon Peter saw
it, he fell down at Jesus’ knees, saying, “Depart from me, for *I am a sinful
man*, O Lord!” (Luke 5:8 NKJV) And Jesus said to Simon, “Do not be afraid. From
now on you will catch men” (Luke 5:10 NKJV). Simon Peter informed Jesus that he
was a sinful man. And yet, Jesus did not think that made him unqualified to
follow Him and be His disciple. Thus, irregardless that Simon was a sinful man,
Jesus still invited him to follow Him and be His disciple. So when they had
brought their boats to land, they forsook all and followed Him (Luke 5:11 NKJV).
Yes, similarly to Levi the tax collector, Simon the fisherman left everything
behind and followed Him.

One morning, after a night of prayer, Jesus called His disciples and selected
twelve of them, whom He also named apostles (special messengers, personally
chosen representatives) (Luke 6:13 AMP). (He had more than twelve disciples. And
of all His disciples, He chose twelve to be apostles.) And the disciples that He
chose to be apostles included Simon, whom He also named Peter (Luke 6:14 AMP) and
Matthew (Levi, the tax collector) (Luke 6:15 AMP). Yes, the people Jesus chose to
be His emissaries included Simon Peter the fisherman (and self-proclaimed sinful
man) as well as Levi the tax collector (whom people in that day and age viewed
as corrupt and traitorous).

These people changed their old ways of thinking, turned from their sins, and
instead sought God and His righteousness. This does not happen if Jesus chooses
to shun or shame or ignore them rather than befriend them. As such, you should
not shun or shame or ignore those whom you find disreputable because of their
actions or views that you do not agree with. Instead, like Jesus, you should be
willing to engage with them and associate with them and befriend them. For, that
is the way in which you may, on the basis of love, appeal to them and compel
them to change their old ways of thinking and turn from their ways and toward
what is right in the eyes of the Lord. Now, I am not only suggesting this to
people of this world. This suggestion is also for we who believe in Jesus. We
who believe in Jesus Christ may regularly get together at a person's home to
feast and fellowship with other believers. Such gatherings are often called
[cell groups][7] or life groups. That is good; keep doing that. However, we who
believe in Jesus should also follow the example that He set and fellowship with
those who do not know Jesus yet. If we who believe choose to only feast and
fellowship with other believers, then we become no different from the Pharisees
and their scribes. Rather, we who believe in Jesus should also engage with and
associate with and befriend those whom people of this world deem to be
disreputable so that we may, like Jesus, invite them to follow Him and become
His disciple. Therefore, fellow believers in Jesus, I appeal to you, on the
basis of love, to follow the example that Jesus set by putting in the time and
effort to feast and to fellowship with people whom the world finds disreputable
so that they may one day accept your invitation to follow Jesus and become His
disciple (or, student and adherer to Jesus' teachings and practices). For, when
a person chooses to follow and adhere to Jesus teachings and practices, they
choose to think and do what is right in the eyes of the Lord, rather than think
and do what is sin in the eyes of the Lord. And when that happens, what wrongs
can people of this world charge them with doing? Associating with a disreputable
person, only, I reckon.

God bless.

[1]: https://theintercept.com/2019/10/09/ellen-degeneres-george-bush/
     "Dear Ellen: The Problem With George W. Bush Is Not His Beliefs&mdash;It’s His War Crimes"
[2]: http://nymag.com/intelligencer/2019/10/ellen-degeneres-is-wrong-about-george-w-bush.html
     "Nobody Should Be Friends With George W. Bush"
[3]: https://twitter.com/TheEllenShow/status/1181395164499070976
[4]: https://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2019/10/ellen-degeneres-george-w-bush-football-game
     "Ellen DeGeneres, George W. Bush, and the Limits of Unconditional Kindness"
[5]: https://www.vox.com/culture/2019/10/9/20906371/ellen-degeneres-george-w-bush-controversy
     "Ellen DeGeneres, George W. Bush, and the death of uncritical niceness"
[6]: {% link _posts/2019-09-25-retweets-do-not-imply-endorsement.md %}
[7]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cell_group
     "Cell group"
