---
categories: [Life]
tags: [Taxes, Abortion, Higher Purpose]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  The Lord has a higher purpose for your life than to live for the benefit of
  yourself. And that is to be a blessing to people within the community, city,
  province/state, and country that you live in.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/71432087-dea3f300-26a4-11ea-8fc1-ada5ebbe4e29.jpg
---

The Left---liberals, democrats, and their equivalent around the world---advocate
for people who make more than a certain amount of money (ofttimes referred to as
The Elite) to pay higher taxes such that the government has more money in their
coffers that can be used for services that are of help and of benefit to those
who do not make as much money (such as homeless shelters, affordable housings,
and public transit) and services that may be of help and of benefit to all
irregardless of money (such as sewage, public parks, and garbage collection).
In other words, The Left advocates for living not just for yourself and just
your own benefit, but also to the benefit of other people in the community, city,
province/state, and country that you live in. In essence, The Left advocates for
you to live for a higher purpose than just yourself. Rather than living for just
yourself and to the benefit of yourself, The Left advocates for living to be a
net benefit/blessing to others.

The Right---conservatives, republicans, libertarians, and their equivalent
around the world---advocate for people to pay less taxes, which, of course,
means that the government has less money that can be used for services that are
of help and of benefit to those that make less money. In other words, those on
The Right is basically saying that what people make from their work is for
themselves and for their own benefit. As such, the government should not be
allowed to take away (through tax policy) what people make and then use it for
other purposes. Instead, The Right advocates for people to have the freedom to
choose what to do with the money that they make. If people want to use the money
that they make for the benefit of others in the community, city, province/state,
and country that they live in, that is their choice to make; not the government.

As mentioned in the previous post, The Lord has a plan and purpose for your
life. And just like The Left, The Lord has a higher purpose for your life than
to just live for the benefit of yourself. Just like The Left, the higher purpose
for your life is to be a blessing to the people within the community, city,
province/state, and country that you live in. However, unlike The Left, The Lord
is not going to force you into living for a higher purpose than yourself. Unlike
The Left, The Lord is not going to force you to be magnanimous. Like The Right,
The Lord gives you the freedom to make your own choices; and that includes the
choice to be or not to be a blessing to people in the community, city,
province/state, and country that you live in. Like The Right, you may prefer
such freedom of choice because you think that you know best how to be of benefit
to others, but I tell you the truth: The Lord knows best with regards to how you
may be a blessing to others. Ergo, you should entrust The Lord to use you to the
benefit of others in a similar manner to how The Left entrusts the government to
know best how to use the taxes that you paid to benefit others. And you do this
by trusting and following and fulfilling The Lord's plans and purpose for your
life rather than thinking (because of ego or arrogance, maybe) that you know
better than The Lord and following your own plans for your life.

The Left---liberals, democrats, and their equivalent around the world---are pro
choice with respect to abortions. With respect to abortion, The Left advocates
for having the freedom to choose what to do with the child made within them in a
similar manner to how The Right advocates for the freedom to choose what to do
with the money that they made. And with respect to abortions, The Left does not
advocate for the passing of policies that force them to be magnanimous and do
things for the benefit of others---the child made within them---in a similar
manner to how The Right does not advocate for the passing of tax policies that
force them to be magnanimous and do things for the benefit of other people in
their community they live in. Instead, The Left advocates for having the freedom
to choose whether or not to do something for the benefit of others (the child
within them) in a similar manner to how The Right advocates for the freedom to
choose whether or not to use the money they make for the benefit of others (in
their community, city, province/state, and country that they live in). Like The
Right with respect to the money they make, The Left may advocate for having the
freedom to choose whether or not to keep the child within them because they
think that they know what's best with regards to them and the child being made
within them, but I tell you the truth: The Lord knows best in that regard.

The Right---conservatives, republicans, libertarians, and their equivalent
around the world---are pro life (of the child being made within a person) with
respect to abortions. The Right advocates for the passing of policies that force
a person to be magnanimous and to live for a higher purpose than just themselves
by doing something to the benefit of the child that is being made within them
(letting the child live) in a similar manner to how The Left advocates for
policies that increase taxes on The Elite to force them to be magnanimous and to
live for a higher purpose than just themselves by paying more taxes that can be
used for the benefit of others in their community, city, province/state, and
country that they live in. And with respect to abortion, The Right advocates for
the taking away of a person's freedom to choose what to do with the child being
made within them whilst advocating for a person to have the freedom to choose
what to do with the money they make.

The Lord, basically, is both pro choice and pro life. The Lord is pro choice in
the sense that we have the freedom to choose what to do. And pro life because
The Lord has a plan and purpose for each person, ergo He would suggest that you
choose to give the child within you the opportunity to live and fulfill the plan
and purpose that The Lord has for them. Therefore, The Lord would suggest that
you choose to live for a higher purpose than yourself and do something for the
benefit of others---the child within you and the people who shall be blessed by
that child, for as mentioned earlier, The Lord plans and purposes for people to
be a net benefit/blessing to others within their community, city, province/state,
and country that they live in. Therefore, choose to bring forth the child within
you in a similar manner to how Mary chose to bring forth The Child within her.
Mary could have said no to bringing forth The Child within her; instead, she
chose to live for a higher purpose than just herself. I reckon that it is safe
to say that The Child that she brought forth became a blessing to a multitude of
people. That is because The Child chose to trust and follow and fulfill the plan
and purpose that His God the Father in Heaven had for Him. God's plan for The
Child were conceived before The Child was within Mary. Likewise, The Lord knew
of the child within you before you knew of the child. Ergo, The Lord has a plan
and purpose for the child within you even though you may not have planned to be
with child. Therefore, choose to give the child within you the opportunity to
live and fulfill the plan and purpose that The Lord has for them.

Merry Christmas and God bless.
