---
categories: [Life]
tags: [trust, circle, clan, clique, cohort, coterie, crew]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  It can be hard to let the Lord be your Shepherd if you do not trust Him. So
  how can you build trust in Him? I reckon it is not too different with how you
  build trust with any other person.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/77794328-1030af80-7042-11ea-8a43-d75dc0ade7a2.jpg
---

In the previous message, it was suggested that you should let the Lord be your
Shepherd. For, when you do that, you shall not lack anything in any sphere of
your life since the Lord shall give you more than enough for your needs in all
aspects of your life. But it can be hard to let someone be your guide in life if
you do not trust that person. Likewise, if you do not trust a person---whether
it be the Lord or someone else---it can be hard to listen to their advice let
alone follow their guidance. For, if you don't trust a person, you may not
believe that they have your best interests at heart nor may you think that they
know which direction to go would be best for your life.

There can be a multitude of reasons why you do not trust a person. Maybe you
used to trust a person but then lost trust in that person. This can happen to
children as they grow up. I reckon that a baby is not born with distrust in
their parents. Babies trust and rely on their parents to love them, take care of
them, feed them, wipe them, comfort them, keep them safe, and the like. In other
words, babies trust and rely on their parents to be their shepherd. Babies trust
and rely on their parents to provide them with more than enough for all their
needs so that they don't lack in any aspect of their life. But as the baby grows
up into a toddler and beyond, sometimes things happen that may cause that person
to stop trusting in their parents. The same thing could happen to those who
(used to) believe in or trust in the Lord. Maybe something happened such that
you no longer believe in or trust in the Lord to be your Shepherd and provider
in all aspects of your life.

On the other hand, it is also possible that you never trusted a person. It could
be because you do not know the person; they are a stranger to you. As such, you
do not know them to give them your trust. For the same reason you may not trust
in the Lord: you do not know Him. Instead, He is a stranger to you. And because
you do not know Him, you do not trust Him.

In either scenario, how can you build trust in the Lord? How can you get to a
place where you trust in the Lord? I reckon that it is not too different with
how you build trust with any other person. First, you must want to get to a
place of trust with a person. If you do not want to trust a person, then you
will not get to a place of trust with that person. So you must want to trust a
person first. The same goes with the Lord. You must want to get to a place of
trust with Him first.

For those of you who do not trust people that you do not know, you of course
have to get to know the stranger and build a relationship with them to build
trust in them. And likewise for them to build trust in you. For, as is mentioned
in [previous posts][1], when you befriend and get to know those whom the rest of
the world thinks should be shunned, you may rise to be in a position of trust
and influence with them such that you may persuade them to turn from their
former ways and instead follow Jesus and become His disciple. But this does not
happen if you do not take the time to befriend and get to know those whom the
world thinks should be shunned.

It is the same with the Lord. For you to get to a place of trust with the Lord,
you need to build a relationship with Him and get to know Him. Eventually, you
may get to the point in the relationship where the Lord trusts you (and vice
versa) such that you become a person of influence in His life and are able to
persuade Him (and vice versa). Of course, as you have the freedom to choose to
build a relationship and get to know a person, you also have the freedom to
choose to build a relationship and get to know the Lord. The Lord is not going
to force you into a relationship with Him; it is your choice. Of course, the
Lord desires to build a relationship with you and build trust in you. So if you
decide to build a relationship and trust with the Lord, He is ready and willing
to reciprocate. On the other hand, if you do not want to build a relationship
and trust with the Lord, then He will be like a spurned lover. As you build
relationships with other people, the Lord will be waiting by the phone,
metaphorically speaking, hoping that you will change your mind and reach out to
Him.

For those of you who used to trust a person but now no longer do, then you have
to want to rebuild your relationship and trust with that person. And if you do
decide to try and rebuild your relationship and trust with a person who had but
lost your trust, a good starting point for that may be to find it in your heart
to forgive them for their transgressions that caused you to stop trusting in
that person. As mentioned in a [previous post][2], you do not have to wait for
the person to apologize or show remorse or show that they have changed before
forgiving them. Instead, you may decide to forgive a person regardless of
whether or not they apologized, sought forgiveness, shown remorse, or shown you
that they have changed.

The Lord does not trangress; only us humans do. And yet, people can still lose
trust in the Lord. This could be because they blame the Lord for things that
happened in their life. Or, as it was mentioned in a [previous post][3], it
could be because God's emissaries turn them away from the Lord. It could also be
because people listen to competing voices. The voices of their family, friends,
and colleagues. And voices in their community, news media, and pop culture.
Voices that contradict the voice or word of God. Voices that persuade them to no
longer trust the voice or word of God. Voices that say to them: God is
irrelevant or unnecessary or dangerous in this day and age. As mentioned in a
[previous post][4], those who believe in Jesus ought to be willing to befriend
other people, such as those whom the rest of the world view as wicked, so that
we may be in a position to persuade them. For, if we are not in a position to
influence people, then others will be in a position to influence them. And such
people may influence them to stop trusting in the Lord and turn away from God.

That could happen to babies as they grow up. Competing voices may tell them not
to listen to their parent's advice or guidance. Competing voices may persuade
them to think that they know better than their parents about which direction to
go is best for their life. The same thing could happen to those who believe in
Jesus. People may tell them to not listen to the Lord's guidance or advice.
And people may persuade them that they know better than the Lord about which
direction to go is best for their life. And because of these competing voices,
people stop following and relying on the Lord. People stop letting the Lord be
their Shepherd. Instead, people rely on and follow the guidance and advice of
the competing voices in their life.

But I tell you the truth: the Lord knows better than you and your circle of
family, friends, confidantes, et al. about the direction that you should go in
your life. And that is because the guidance and advice that other people give
to you is limited by their knowledge. But, the Lord is all-knowing; He does not
have any blind spots or gaps in His knowledge, so the Lord can give you better
guidance and advice than your coterie of family, friends, confidantes, et al.
It can be similar to when you are trying to get from your current location to
another location. You may decide on particular directions/routes to get to a
particular place, but such choices are based on the limited knowledge that you
and your cohort of family, friends, confidantes, et al. have. And by doing this,
you may see that you need to adjust the directions you followed and make detours
along the way as you come across unexpected roadblocks and obstacles and dead
ends that slow you down or block your path to your destination. The Lord, on the
other hand, is all-seeing. Thus, the Lord knows the best path to take to get you
from your current location to your destination (destiny). The Lord sees if
taking a particular path will lead to a dead end. And the Lord can see if a
particular route has obstacles that would block you from proceeding toward your
destination. Obstacles that would cause you to deviate from your destination
(destiny). Thus, the Lord knows the paths that you should take and the paths
that you should avoid to reach your destiny.

This is not to say that you should never listen or follow the advice of your
clique of family, friends, and confidantes, et al. Of course, their advice may
align with the guidance that you receive from the Lord. But, as mentioned in
[previous messages][5], when there is a deviation between the Lord's advice and
the advice of your clan of family, friends, and confidantes, et al., you have a
choice to make: whose advice shall you follow?

Of course it can be difficult to start trusting and following the guidance and
advice of the Lord when you have always relied upon and trusted the guidance
and advice of your crew of family, friends, and confidantes, et al. That is why
getting to know the Lord is an important step toward getting to a place of trust
with Him. And as you get to know the Lord, also ask for His guidance and advice
with respect to your life and the direction that you should go. You do not have
to stop asking your family, friends, and confidantes, et al. for their guidance
and advice. You can continue to do that. But in addition to asking your family,
friends, and confidantes, et al., you can start to ask the Lord for His guidance
and advice. You can start with small things. You can take baby steps with your
relationship with the Lord. And as He builds your trust in Him, you can start to
trust in Him with the bigger and more important things in your life. And maybe
He eventually becomes a part of your crew. He may become like family to you
(think: God the Father in Heaven; Jesus Christ, your Brother). And He may become
like a friend and confidante to you (think: Jesus Christ, Holy Spirit). But this
does not happen if you do not want to build a relationship with the Lord and get
to know Him and get to a place of trust with Him, so decide today whether or not
you want the Lord to become a part of your circle of trust.

God bless.

[1]: {% link _posts/2019-10-25-tax-collectors-and-sinners.md %}
[2]: {% link _posts/2019-09-25-retweets-do-not-imply-endorsement.md %}
[3]: {% link _posts/2019-10-18-the-seed-of-anger.md %}
[4]: {% link _posts/2020-01-15-scheduled-annihilation.md %}
[5]: {% link _posts/2018-12-05-did-god-really-say.md %}
