---
categories: [World]
tags: [Black Lives Matter, Covid-19, Inequality, Societal Illness]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Churches and its workers ought to be at the frontlines treating and eliminating
  societal illnesses like how hospitals and its workers are at the frontlines
  treating and eliminating diseases like Covid-19.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/86523075-cde2ef80-be34-11ea-89cb-3158788ecbfa.jpg
---

We can only feel the tremor; we do not see the inner tension (of the tectonic
plates) that cause the tremor. This inner tension can build up over a long
period of time and release itself in the form of an earthquake. The earthquake
is just a by-product of this inner tension being released after a period of
time building, grinding, and finally breaking up underneath the surface of the
earth.

We can only see the eruption; we do not see the inner turmoil boiling within
(the volcano) that cause the eruption. This inner turmoil can build up over a
long period of time before releasing itself in the form of a volcanic eruption.
The volcanic eruption is just a by-product of this turmoil being released after
a period of time building, seething, and finally erupting forth from within the
volcano.

It is the same with people who erupt at others. It may be a by-product of that
which we do not see or know---the inner tensions of that person's life grinding
beneath the surface of [the facade][1] that we do see and the inner turmoils of
that person's life seething within them. After a period of time of being built
up within a person, you may see this person's inner tensions and turmoils
released whilst around you in the form of angry outbursts, an eruption of words
spewing forth toward you, and other types of destructive behaviours that breaks
and shakes the calm and peaceful atmosphere that was present just moments ago.

Of course, this is not limited to the individual level; these tremors and
eruptions may also happen at the communal or societal level. In fact, you can
see such eruptions happening across America. For, as mentioned in the previous
message, Martin Luther King Jr. had "a dream that one day this nation will rise
up, live out the true meaning of its creed: 'We hold these truths to be
self-evident, that all men are created equal'" so that his "four little children
will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of
their skin but by the content of their character." However, as current events in
America can attest, Martin Luther King Jr.'s dream has not yet been realized.

This racial tension has been building up in America (and elsewhere) for many
generations. This racial inequality has been grinding and causing friction
for many generations. For a long period of time, a certain people have been
seething with indignation at the racial injustices that they have faced and
experienced. So the eruptions (protests) that you see happening across America
(and elsewhere) is just a by-product of this inner tension and turmoil that is
being released after building up for a long period of time within society.

When a person unexpectedly erupts and spews words toward you, just realize that
is a symptom of an underlying cause, similarly to how fevers, coughs, fatigue,
loss of taste and smell, and the like, may be symptoms to an underlying illness
such as Covid-19. You may try to treat the symptoms but that does not resolve
the underlying illness that caused those symptoms in the first place. Similarly,
the protests happening around America (and elsewhere) are just a symptom of an
underlying social illness---racial inequality. You can try to treat the symptoms
by setting curfews or bringing in more law enforcement officers to quell the
unrest but that does not fix the underlying societal ills that cause those
symptoms in the first place.

Without a remedy, contagious diseases like Covid-19 may continue to infect
people of this world. And without collective action, people who are ill with a
contagious virus like Covid-19 may spread the virus to others, thereby causing
the illness to spread within their community or society. It can be the same with
societal ills. Without a remedy, societal ills like racial inequality may
continue to infect people of this world. Without collective action, people who
are ill with a contagious disease---like hatred toward other races or beliefs
that you are superior to other races---may spread those diseased points of views
to others, thereby causing the illness to spread within their community or
society.

Because of the collective action of the people around the world---like shutting
down non-essential services, social distancing, refraining from going out unless
absolutely necessary, and wearing face masks when you do go out in public, and
the like---countries have been able to either eliminate the contagious disease
Covid-19 or flatten the curve. New Zealand was one of the countries that was
able to [halt the spread of Covid-19][2]. This was done by making halting the
spread of Covid-19 a top priority. And this was made a top priority because
halting the spread of Covid-19 was identified as desirable for the greater good
of society. For, as mentioned in a [previous post][3], we are called to live for
a higher purpose than just ourselves. We are called to live to be a
benefit/blessing to others in the community, city, province/state, and country
that they live in. New Zealanders decided to live for a higher purpose than
themselves. New Zealanders chose to live for the benefit of others in their
community, city, and country. Because of this collective and sustained effort
and vigilance by the citizens of New Zealand, they were able to halt the spread
of Covid-19. However, if people within a community or country stop working
together before the disease has been eliminated from said community or country,
then the disease may flare up again and continue to spread to others within the
community or country rather than be eliminated. And if people within a community
or country think that other things should take priority over halting the spread
of the disease, then the disease may flare up again and continue to spread to
other people within the community or country rather than be eliminated. This
scenario is happening in countries such as America.

Likewise, it can take the collective action of the people within a community or
a country to eliminate societal diseases such as racial inequality. But it has
to be a top priority of that community or country. The people of that community
or country must also believe that it is for the greater good of society to
eliminate that societal disease. The people of that community or country
must be willing to do things for the collective benefit of others ahead of the
benefit of just themselves and their kind. However, if the people within a
community or country decide to put themselves ahead of the collective benefit of
others, then the spread of the societal disease shall continue unabated. As
well, if the people within a community or country stop working collectively
before the societal illness has been eliminated, then the societal illness may
flare up again and continue to spread to others. Like New Zealand's response to
Covid-19, elimination of societal illnesses requires collective will, sustained
effort, and vigilance by the government and citizens of the community or
country. On the other hand, societal illnesses shall continue to spread within a
community or country if they follow a similar path to America's response to
Covid-19.

When a person experienced the symptoms associated with Covid-19, they would go
to the hospital to get tested and, if necessary, get treatment. Hospitals---and
the doctors and nurses and other essential workers who worked there---were at
the forefront of the community's response to eliminating the disease. Doctors
and nurses and other essential workers were willing to work for the collective
benefit of others within their community; they put other people's benefit ahead
of their own. At the very least, others ought to be willing to do the same.
However, as you can see in countries like America, some people are not willing
to do that. This selfishness---putting self ahead of others--- can be a symptom
of an individual's diseased soul. At the societal level, the selfishness of
putting one race above another can be symptom of a societal illness. Like
doctors and nurses and other essential workers, there must be workers who may
treat those who show symptoms of societal illness. Symptoms like hatred toward
other races or beliefs of superiority over other races. The workers who treat
the symptoms of societal illnesses may work in a kind of hospital---a hospital
for the soul, the church. For, as Jesus said to the scribes and Pharisees who
criticized Him eating and drinking with tax collectors and sinners: “Healthy
people don’t need a doctor; those who are sick do. I’ve come to call sinners to
change the way they think and act, not to call people who think they have God’s
approval” (Luke 5:31-32 GW). Yes, church and its workers ought to be at the
forefront of a community's response to treating and eliminating societal
illnesses like how hospitals and its workers are at the forefront of a
community's reponse to treating and eliminating diseases like Covid-19. For, if
the church and its workers are not willing to be at the forefront, then societal
illnesses may continue to spread unabated rather than be halted and eliminated.

God bless.

[1]: {% link _posts/2019-09-25-retweets-do-not-imply-endorsement.md %}
[2]: https://time.com/5849910/new-zealand-eliminated-coronavirus/
     "New Zealand Has Eliminated Coronavirus, Prime Minister Says"
[3]: {% link _posts/2019-12-25-taxes-and-abortion.md %}
