---
categories: [Life]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  You should also be calm whilst you are amidst the storm because you should
  have faith that Jesus is able and willing to make storms in your life cease
  to exist.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/93406535-e4a6b900-f85d-11ea-8330-ca8eaed250ac.jpg
---

As it was mentioned in the previous message, people can learn to live with the
fears and challenges in one's life by avoiding to deal with them rather than
confronting them. But as it was mentioned in the previous post, Jesus can remove
the obstacles and challenges in your life that you live with and avoid
confronting because of fear. With Jesus, you do not have to fear the challenges
/ obstacles that block your path. With Jesus, you can have the courage to
confront those obstacles. Because with Jesus, you can have confidence that those
challenges and obstacles that block your path shall go from you and perish and
be removed and cease to exist.

Such a situation happened to Jesus' disciples one day. One day he got into a
boat with his disciples, and he said to them, “Let us go across to the other
side of the lake.” So they set out, and as they sailed he fell asleep. And a
windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water and were in
danger (Luke 8:22-23 ESV). Jesus' disciples went sailing from their current
position in life to their destination across the lake. Whilst on their journey,
they encountered a stormy situation in their life. Like the people in the city
where the demon-possessed man lived in the tombs, Jesus' disciples could have
learned to live with the stormy situation in their life. But they did not.
Instead, they went and woke him, saying, “Master, Master, we are perishing!” And
he awoke and rebuked the wind and the raging waves, and they ceased, and there
was a calm (Luke 8:24 ESV). Yes, the disciples told Jesus about the stormy
situation that they were in; and Jesus made the stormy situation in their life
cease to exist so that calm and peace was restored in their life.

Likewise, you may be in the midst of a stormy situation in your life. Well, like
the disciples, you too may tell Jesus about the stormy situation in your life.
And like the storm that was rocking the boat that the disciples were in, Jesus
may also make the stormy situation in your life cease to exist so that there is
calm in your life. And of course Jesus can also calm the storms that exist in
society. Storms such as the Covid-19 pandemic. Storms such as the wildfires
raging across America. Storms such as the protests and counter-protests due to
systemic racial inequality. And the like. You can tell Jesus about these storms;
and Jesus can make them cease to exist so that calm and peace is restored in
your community, your city, society.

It can feel like Jesus is not there to help you through the storms. It can feel
like Jesus is asleep at the wheel while storms are raging all around you. That
may have been what Jesus disciples felt. Jesus was asleep whilst the storm was
raging all around them. Therefore, it may have felt like Jesus wouldn't do
anything to help them whilst they were in the midst of the storms that they were
experiencing in life. Instead, it may have felt like Jesus would allow them to
succumb to the storms in their life.

But that is not true. What Jesus wanted His disciples to know was that there was
no reason to panic or be afraid whilst amidst the storms in their life. After He
made the storm cease to exist in their life, He said to them, “Where is your
faith?” And they were afraid, and they marveled, saying to one another, “Who
then is this, that he commands even winds and water, and they obey him?” (Luke
8:25 ESV) He was saying that you should not just be calm before the storm.
Instead, you should also be calm whilst you are amidst the storm because you
should have faith that Jesus is able and willing to make storms in your life
cease to exist.

Likewise, you do not need to panic or be fearful of the stormy situations that
exist in your life or your community. Whether it be the Covid-19 pandemic or the
wildfires or the racial tension raging in your community or some other storm in
your personal life, there is no need to panic or be afraid. Instead, you need to
have faith. Faith that Jesus will calm the storm in your life so that they cease
to exist. Just believe.

God bless.
