---
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/51361957-b75da280-1a9f-11e9-8bde-704a26cc0d29.jpg
categories: [Life]
tags: [Relationship, Life And Death, Trojan Horse]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  When you cultivate a relationship with the Lord God, He may forewarn you when
  something will result in the death of any aspect of your life.
---

> Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the Lord God had
made. He said to the woman, "Did God really say, 'You must not eat from any tree
in the garden'?"
>
The woman said to the serpent, "We may eat fruit from the trees in the garden,
but God did say, 'You must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of
the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die.'"
>
"You will not certainly die," the serpent said to the woman. "For God knows that
when you eat from it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing
good and evil." (Genesis 3:1â€“5 NIV)

As it was mentioned in the previous story, Jesus cultivated a relationship with
His Father in Heaven by regularly praying to and communing with His Father in
Heaven. And through this relationship that He cultivated with His Father in
Heaven, Jesus was able to gain some foresight into what was and is to come in
His life. Similarly to Jesus, Adam and Eve also cultivated a relationship with
the Lord God by regularly communing with Him. From this relationship that they
cultivated with the Lord God, they were able to gain some foresight when the
Lord God let them know in advance: "You are free to eat from any tree in the
garden; but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil,
for when you eat from it you will certainly die." This is something that is good
to know in advance, especially if you are not too keen on death. And for those
who are not too keen on death, it is good to know if doing something shall
certainly result in death, so that one may avoid doing the thing that shall
certainly result in death. Now, the death that is mentioned here is not limited
to the literal end of one's life, for one's life is not the only thing that may
be considered dead. Anything that does not exist may be considered dead. And
anything that is lacking may be considered dead. Anything that is lost may be
considered dead. And anything that ceases to be may be considered dead. For
example, your health may be considered dead if you cease to be healthy and
become sick. Your career may be considered dead if you are unemployed or you are
stuck in a dead end job that lacks fulfillment. And your finances may be
considered dead if you lack enough money or lost all your money. Your house
situation could be considered dead if you cease to own your home (maybe due to a
dead financial situation) or lack a home big enough for your family. Your social
situation could be considered dead if you lack or lost friends. And your family
could be considered dead if you lost your significant other or you cease to be
close with your relatives for whatever reason. And so forth. Now, similarly to
Jesus and Adam and Eve, you too may cultivate a relationship with the Lord God
by regularly communing with and praying to Him. From this relationship that you
cultivate with the Lord God, you may gain foresight into what is to come in your
life. Moreover, you may gain foresight into the things and the actions that will
surely result in death. For example, the Lord God may tell you in advance that
doing something shall certainly result in the death of your health. This is
something that is good to know in advance, especially if you are not too keen on
the death of your health, so that you may avoid doing the thing that shall
certainly result in the death of your health. Also, the Lord God can let you
know in advance when doing something will certainly result in the death of your
career, business, financial, or housing situation. This is good to know in
advance, so that you may avoid doing those things that will result in the death
of those aspects of your life. Indeed, with a relationship that you cultivate
with the Lord God, He may forewarn you when doing something shall certainly
result in the death of any aspect of your life.

Of course, as a person with free will and the freedom to make your own
decisions, you may decide to listen and follow the advice that the Lord God has
for you, or to not listen and follow the advice that the Lord God has for you.
Adam and Eve also had the freedom to make the choice on whether or not they
would listen to and follow the advice that the Lord God gave to them. Those two
chose not to. Instead, the woman decided to listen to what the serpent said to
her. The serpent said to the woman, "You will not certainly die," if you eat the
fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil whilst the Lord God said
the opposite to her. Now, she has a choice to make: to believe in what the Lord
God said to her or to believe in what others (in this case, the serpent) said to
her. That is a choice that she can make. She chose to believe what the serpent
said to her over what the Lord God said to her. And because of this lack of
belief in what the Lord God said to her, she ended up doing what the Lord God
told her not to do. (Also, the man chose to heed the voice of the woman instead
of the voice of the Lord God when she gave of the fruit of the tree to the man
and he ate it.) Similarly to Adam and Eve, you  may decide whether or not to
believe in what the Lord God says to you. That is a choice that you may make.
Now, other people (such as your friends and family) may also tell you things or
give you advice on what to do. And that advice may be contrary to the advice
that the Lord God gives you in a similar manner to how what the serpent said to
the woman was contrary to what the Lord God told her. And when such a scenario
happens, you have a choice to make: to follow the advice that the Lord God gives
you, or to follow the advice that others give you. I suggest for you to always
believe and follow the advice that the Lord God gives you rather than believing
and following the advice that others give to you. Otherwise, you may be like the
woman and the man and end up doing something that shall result in the death of
you or some area of your life. For, in essence, a lack of belief in what the
Lord God says leads to disobedience (not following what the Lord God told you to
do or not to do) which ultimately leads to death (not necessarily of your life
but some area of your life or some opportunity that the Lord God opened up for
you).

Now, there may be many reasons why the woman decided to do what the Lord God
told her not to do. For one, it may be because she fell for one of the tactics
that the serpent likes to employ. One of the tactics that the serpent employs so
that you do not follow what the Lord God says is by getting you to question in
your heart whether or not the Lord God really said what you think He said to
you. The serpent used this trick on the woman by asking her, "Did God really
say, 'You must not eat from any tree in the garden'?" The serpent asked the
woman that question in order to get her to doubt in her heart whether or not the
Lord God actually said what she thinks He said to her be getting her to think
that she is mistaken to think that the Lord God really said that to her. This
trick that the serpent used against the woman is also employed against us in
this day and age. When we spend some time to pray and commune with the Lord God,
He shall respond to our prayers and communications with Him (because
communication and relationships are a two way street). Sometimes, after the Lord
God responds to our prayers and communications with Him, we doubt in our heart
whether or not what the Lord God said to us is really what He said to us. Also,
we sometimes wonder whether it was the Lord God's voice that we heard speaking
to us or if it was just our inner voice and imaginations. This doubting in our
heart and wondering in our mind that we do is the work of the serpent. The
serpent is attempting to employ against us the tactic that he employed on the
woman. The serpent is trying to get us to doubt in our hearts whether or not
what the Lord God said to us is really what He said by getting us to think that
we are mistaken to think that He really said that to us. Now, the serpent does
this because he does not want us thinking that we heard the Lord God lest we
believe in Him. That is what the serpent fears. Therefore, we must understand
this tactic of the serpent and realize when the serpent is trying to use this
tactic against us so that we may guard against falling for this tactic of his.

[Aside: As mentioned above, you may wonder how to know if what you think is the
Lord God's voice actually is His voice that is speaking to you. Well, when you
cultivate a relationship with the Lord God by praying to and communing with Him
(as well as reading the Scriptures), you shall become familiar with the Lord
God's voice. For example, let's say you are in a room with a multitude of
people. And in this room there is someone whom you are familiar with (and they
with you) because you have built a relationship with them. Now, this person may
be a family member or close friend or significant other. Now let's say that this
person calls out to you from somewhere behind you. Without turning around to see
who it is, you may recognize who is calling out to you because you have become
familiar with their voice in the process of time as you cultivated a
relationship with them. It is similar with the Lord God. As you cultivate a
relationship with the Lord God and get to know Him over time, you shall start to
recognize His voice and become familiar with His voice. And when that happens,
even though you do not see Him, you shall know that it is Him that is speaking
to you.]

Now, the above is not the only tactic in the serpent's toolbox. If the serpent
is not successful in using the above tactic against us, the serpent may try to
downplay or get us to doubt the consequence of doing what the Lord God told us
not to do (and vice versa). As mentioned above, the Lord God may let us know in
advance when doing something shall certainly result in death. For example, the
Lord God may warn us when doing something shall certainly result in the death of
our finances. And when that happens, the serpent shall attempt to get us to
doubt the veracity of what the Lord God told us. The serpent shall attempt to
get us to not believe that certain aspects of our life shall certainly result in
death if we do what the Lord God said not to. This is what the serpent did to
the woman when he said, "You will not certainly die," if you eat of the fruit
from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. The serpent is trying to get
her to doubt that she shall die when eating from that tree. And the serpent is
also attempting to downplay and get her to doubt the consequences of doing what
the Lord God said not to do. The serpent is trying to get her to doubt the
veracity of what the Lord God said to her. This tactic of the serpent, when
employed successfully, result in the death of our belief in the Lord God as well
as what He says to us. That is the goal of the serpent: to get us to lose faith
in the Lord God and what He says to us. The serpent does not want us to keep
believing in the Lord God as well as what He says to us because he fears the
outcome: us, alive in the Lord God. And so, we must be vigilant in understanding
the tactics of the serpent as well as when he tries to use them against us so
that we may guard against falling for his tactics.

Now, besides downplaying the consequences of doing what the Lord God said not
to, the serpent may also try to get the woman to believe it is more fruitful or
beneficial to do what He said not to by playing up the benefits. The serpent
attempted to convince the woman of that by saying, "For God knows that when you
eat from it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and
evil," to her. The serpent is trying to convince the woman that it would be
better to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil because her eyes
will be opened and she will be like God, knowing good and evil. The serpent is
trying to get the woman to pursue after what seems desirable (from her
standpoint) instead of following what the Lord God told her to do. Likewise, the
serpent is trying to get her to doubt that the Lord God knows what is best for
her. This tactic that the serpent employed against the woman is the same tactic
that he employs against us in this day and age. For example, the Lord God may
tell us not to take the new job that requires relocation to a new city and
country. And when the Lord God tells us not to do that thing, the serpent may
spring into action and attempt to convince us that it will be better to do what
the Lord God told us not to do. The serpent may try to convince us by outlining
the perceived benefits of doing what the Lord God told us not to, such as,
perhaps, an increase in compensation or other perks when compared to our current
job and city/country of residence. By doing this, the serpent is attempting to
get us to pursue that which seems desirable (from our standpoint) instead of
following what the Lord God says. And the serpent is also trying to get us to
doubt that the Lord God knows best. Although we may be convinced that it is
better to do that which the Lord God told us not to, it is not; instead, it may
be like a trojan horse---something that looks good and harmless but in reality
leads to undesirable consequence. And so, when the Lord God suggests that we do
or not do something, may I recommend that we trust in the Lord God and trust
that He knows what is best for us. This is because what we are able to see of
the trojan horse---the outside---may look good and harmless to us, however what
we cannot see of the trojan horse---the inside---certainly leads to undesirable
consequences. We can only see the outside of the trojan horse. The Lord God can
see both the outside and inside. Thus, although it may seem more fruitful or
beneficial to do what the Lord God told us not to do, may I suggest that we
refrain from doing that which the Lord God told us not to do. For, while we may
not understand why the Lord God told us not to do something that seems
beneficial for us, just trust in Him; the Lord God has our best interest at
heart. This tactic of the serpent, when successfully used against us, results in
us pursuing after our own plans and desires for our life rather than following
and fulfilling the plans the Lord God has for our life, for the serpent does not
want us to follow and fulfill the plans that the Lord God has for our life
because he fears the outcome: us growing and maturing in the Lord God and
bearing fruit that will nourish (bless) others. When I say that the fruit that
we bear will provide nourishment (blessing) to others, I mean that the fruit
that we bear shall build up, strengthen, edify, encourage, and help others to
grow and flourish as well as become more fruitful. However, this is not what the
serpent wants; instead, he wants to destroy us by getting us to follow plans
that seem to be desirable (from our standpoint) but leads to death (in our
growth and fruitfulness). Thus, we must be vigilant in understanding the tactics
of the serpent as well as when he tries to use them against us so that we may
guard against falling for his tactics.

[Aside: One may wonder why they should put their trust in the Lord God. As it
was mentioned in the previous aside above, as you cultivate a relationship with
the Lord God, you may learn to recognize and become familiar with His voice.
That is not the only thing that you shall start to become familiar with. You
shall also become familiar with the Lord God's character as you cultivate a
relationship with Him. Now, this is not too different from when you cultivate
a relationship with someone else, such as a relative or significant other or
friend. In the process of time, as you get to know them and become familiar with
their voice, you shall also get to know their character. When you get to know
the Lord God's character, you shall find that He is trustworthy (amongst other
characteristics).]

The woman in the story decided not to trust in the Lord God. Now, there may be
many reasons why a person decides not to trust in the Lord God. Besides thinking
that you know what is best for your life whilst the Lord God does not, you may
decide not to trust in the Lord God because you are not satisfied with your life
and not satisfied with what the Lord God has given you. Instead, you desire
more. You desire what the Lord God has not given you. This is basically what
happened with the man and the woman. They were unsatisfied with what the Lord
God had already given them. They desired more. In addition to what the Lord God
had already given them, they also desired what the Lord God had not given them.
As was mentioned earlier in the story, the Lord God said to them, "You are free
to eat from any tree in the garden; but you must not eat from the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil, for when you eat from it you will certainly die."
The Lord God had given them every tree in the garden to eat from. Now, this
presumably includes the tree of life that was also in the middle of the garden.
The one and only tree they were not given to eat from was the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil. Every other tree in the garden they could eat from.
Yet, they were not satisfied with what they had already been given. They wanted
more. In addition to being able to eat from all the other trees in the garden,
they also wanted to eat the fruit from the one tree that was not given to them.
So that is what they did. They chose to eat fruit from the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil, which resulted in death, rather than eat from the tree of life
that was also in the middle of the garden. They chose eating from that which
results in death instead of eating from that which results in life! (Now, you
may wonder why they never ate from the tree of life. Presumably they never ate
from the tree of life because death was not a concern for them until they chose
to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thus they never had a
reason to eat from the tree of life before then.) Now, like the man and the
woman, you too have a choice to make: to be satisfied with your life and what
you have been given, or to be unsatisfied with your life and desire the things
that the Lord God has not given to you. I suggest you choose the former.
Moreover, like the man and the woman, you can choose that which leads to life or
that which leads to death. I suggest you choose life.

God bless.
