---
categories: [Culture]
tags: [Internet Culture, Social Media]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Like swarms of locusts that devour crops in a field, leaving behind only death
  and destruction, so too do people in this day and age swarm those whose action
  have been made public on social media.
---

> Now early in the morning He came again into the temple, and all the people
came to Him; and He sat down and taught them. Then the scribes and Pharisees
brought to Him a woman caught in adultery. And when they had set her in the
midst, they said to Him, "Teacher, this woman was caught in adultery, in the
very act. Now Moses, in the law, commanded us that such should be stoned. But
what do You say?" (John 8:2–5 NKJV)

Early in the morning Jesus came again into the temple. Whilst there, Jesus sat
down and taught all the people who came to Him. Whilst teaching, the scribes and
Pharisees brought to Him a woman who was caught in adultery and then set her in
the midst of all the people who were there. I reckon that most, if not all, of
the people who were there did not know her. And to all the people who were there
and did not know her, the scribes and Pharisees brought to light certain actions
of this woman. In the presence of all who were there, they said to Jesus, "This
woman was caught in adultery, in the very act." In essence, these scribes and
Pharisees decided to bring to light who this woman was and certain actions of
hers by accusing this woman in a public forum that is frequented by a multitudes
of people who do not know her.

Sound familiar?

What happened to this woman happens to people in this day and age as well. The
main difference between then and now is the forum. Now, with the advent and
growth of the Internet and social media platforms---like Facebook, Instagram,
Snapchat, and Twitter---anyone can bring to light the actions of someone to a
multitude of people who previously did not know this someone. And what a person
brings to light through their preferred social media platform may, with the
press of a button, quickly spread like wildfire as other people share this
revelation to their social network friends and followers. What happens
whenceforth is similar to what happened to the woman who was caught in the act
of adultery. Without a trial or due process, the woman was judged guilty and
sentenced to be stoned to death. Like that woman, a person may, without trial or
due process, be judged guilty and sentenced to be stoned to death when somebody
decides to bring to light the actions of a person by publicly accusing that
person on a public forum that is frequented by a multitude of people who do not
know that person. In the story of that woman, that woman was sentenced to be
stoned to death by actual stones. Now, people are sentenced to verbal stones---
harassment, shaming, insults, vitriol, death threats, calls for them to resign
or be fired, and the like---being thrown toward them by a multitude of people
who do not know them, yet banded together to mete out the punishment that they
have sentenced the accused to.

Like swarms of locusts that band together and devour crops in a field, leaving
behind only death and destruction, so too do people in this day and age band
together to swarm those whose actions have been brought to light. And when this
swarm of people finish devouring said person, leaving behind only death and
destruction, these people move on to the next person to swarm, devour, and
destroy. But that ought not to be! That woman was sentenced to death via stoning
because that was the de jure law of the land in those days. Now, judging and
sentencing and meting out punishment without a fair trial or due process has
become the de facto law of the land. However, rather than doing what has become
the de facto law in this day and age, may I suggest that you ask Jesus the same
question that the scribes and Pharisees asked Him: "What do You say [to do]?"
And you may discover that His response to you is similar to His response to the
scribes and Pharisees and all who were present in that place.

> So when they continued asking Him, He raised Himself up and said to them, "He
who is without sin among you, let him throw a stone at her first." And again He
stooped down and wrote on the ground. Then those who heard it, being convicted
by their conscience, went out one by one, beginning with the oldest even to the
last. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. (John 8:7–9
NKJV)

The people who were there asked Jesus a couple of times before He answered.
(Sometimes, when seeking an answer from Him, you have to be persistent and ask
Him multiple times before He gives you a reply to your question.) Eventually,
Jesus replied. He said to those who were there: "He who is without sin among
you, let him throw a stone at her first." He suggested that they focus their
gaze inwards and evaluate themselves and see if they are with or without sin.
And then He stooped down to give them a chance to do as He suggested. After some
time, all who were there left because all were with sin. Not one was without
sin. I reckon that the people who were there realized that, since they too are
with sin, it is surely possible that someone may some day bring to light that
sin of theirs to a multitude of people who do not know them in a like manner to
how the scribes and Pharisees brought to light the actions of the woman who was
standing before them. And I reckon that those who were there realized that, if
that sin of theirs were brought to light one day, then they might find
themselves in the same position that the woman caught in the act of adultery
found herself in: amid a multitude of people willing to judge and mete out the
punishment that they have sentenced her to without a fair trial and due process.
And I imagine that those people who were there realized that, if they ever found
themselves in a similar situation as that woman, they would prefer mercy rather
than a stoning by multitudes that do not know them, yet banded together to mete
out the punishment that they have sentenced them to.

And so, might I suggest that you do likewise? That you take a moment to focus
your gaze inwards to evaluate yourself to see if you are with or without sin the
next time you feel compelled to judge and mete out the punishment that you have
sentenced those whose actions have been brought to light. Like the people who
were surrounding the woman, I reckon that you too shall be convicted by your
conscience since it shall bring to light the sins that are with you. And so, may
I also suggest that you come to the same realizations that I reckon those people
surrounding the woman came to: that it is surely possible to one day find
yourself in a position wherein multitudes of people that do not know you band
together to, without a trial or due process, judge you for actions that have
been brought to light by some person, sentence you, as well as mete out the
punishment that they have sentenced you to. Thus, the next time that you feel
compelled to mete out punishment to those whose actions have been brought to
light, might I also suggest that you respond with mercy rather than judgment.

The people surrounding that woman left one by one after they were all convicted
by their conscience until only Jesus was left with the woman. Jesus was the only
one willing to stand up for her and stand by her side in the midst of the
turmoil that she was experiencing. No one else was willing to stand up for her
or stand by her side. Only Jesus. (I reckon He did not quickly answer the scribe
and Pharisees' question because Jesus wanted to give those who were there a
chance to speak up and stand up for her.) Thus, if you ever find yourself
witnessing someone being swarmed by multitudes who decided to condemn them
without a trial or due process, may I recommend that you step in and stand up
for them in the midst of the turmoil that they are experiencing? Likewise, if
you find yourself in the midst of a swarm of people who are judging you and
meting out the punishment that they have sentenced you to without a fair trial
or due process, just believe and know with certainty in your heart that there is
One who will always stand up for you and stand by your side: Jesus. Also, He
shall never condemn you. Although you may find yourself in a situation where you
are being condemned by a multitude of people who do not know you, Jesus shall
not condemn you in a similar manner to how He did not condemn that woman caught
in the act of adultery. Just believe.

In short, this story mentioned three types of people: the scribes and Pharisees,
who publicly accused a woman of certain actions; the people who heard those
accusations against her and were willing to, without fair trial and due process,
judge her as guilty and mete out the punishment that they have sentenced her to;
and Jesus, who stood by her side and did not condemn her. You can decide whose
example to follow. You can decide to follow the example set by the scribes and
Pharisees. You can decide to follow the example set by the people that heard the
accusation made against the woman. Or you can follow the example set by Jesus. I
suggest you follow the example set by Jesus, but it is ultimately up to you.
Choose wisely, my friends. God bless.
