---
categories: [Culture]
tags: [Internet Culture, Social Media, Migrant Caravan]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  In this day and age, those who are publicly accused on a social media platform
  are imprisoned by the false allegations made against them.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/51095356-34c4a280-1782-11e9-96d6-affcacc2dbf3.png
---

> Now Joseph had been taken to Egypt. An Egyptian named Potiphar, an officer of
Pharaoh and the captain of the guard, bought him from the Ishmaelites who had
brought him there. <cite>Genesis 39:1 HCSB</cite>

Joseph was purchased by Potiphar, an Egyptian officer of Pharaoh and captain of
the guard. And he became a servant in Potiphar's household. In other words,
Joseph became an au pair. Eventually, he was promoted by Potiphar and became his
personal assistant as well as the overseer of his house. Now, Potiphar had a
wife. His wife was attracted to Joseph. Every day, she tried to seduce him.
Every day, he declined her advances. One day, when she found him alone in the
house, she grabbed ahold of his garment and again tried to seduce him.
Nevertheless, he escaped her grasp and fled outside, leaving behind his garment.
Now, with his garment in her hand as evidence, she gathered the other servants
of the house and falsely accused Joseph of trying to rape her. When Potiphar,
her husband, came home, she repeated her false allegations to him. What she did
to Joseph is not too different from what the scribes and Pharisees from the last
story did to the woman caught in the very act of adultery. Like the scribes and
Pharisees from the previous story, Potiphar's wife decided to publicly accuse a
person of certain actions.

> So it was, when his master heard the words which his wife spoke to him,
saying, "Your servant did to me after this manner," that his anger was aroused.
Then Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, a place where the
king's prisoners were confined. And he was there in the prison. <cite>Genesis
39:19–20 NKJV</cite>

As mentioned in the previous story, when you hear about the actions of a person
from someone who chose to bring to light those actions of that person, you have
a choice on how to respond. You may respond in a similar manner to those who
heard the accusations that the scribes and Pharisees made against that woman
caught in the act of adultery---by judging the accused of being guilty and
meting out the punishment that you have sentenced them to, all without fair
trial or due process. Or you may respond in a similar manner to Jesus when he
heard the scribes' and Pharisees' accusations against the woman caught in the
very act of adultery---not by condemning them but by standing up for them and
standing by their side. The wife's husband and Joseph's master, Potiphar,
decided upon the first option. (Now, this is not to imply that Potiphar took the
time to deliberate before choosing a course of action. For all intents and
purposes, I reckon, Potiphar #BelievedHer.) So, without a fair trial or due
process, Potiphar judged Joseph guilty of raping his wife and meted out the
punishment that he sentenced him to by taking and putting him into prison. But
that ought not to be! Just because a person chose to publicly accuse someone of
certain actions, it does not mean that those allegations are true. Potiphar's
wife made the choice to accuse Joseph of raping her. But as we can see from this
story, those allegations of hers were false. However, those who heard her
allegations against Joseph believed them to be true. And because they believed
those allegations to be true, without a trial or due process, those who heard
the allegations judged Joseph guilty and meted out the punishment that they
sentenced him to by taking and putting him into prison. In other words, he was
wrongfully convicted and punished for actions that he did not do. Not only was
he thrown into prison, he also lost his job, his dignity, and his future. Joseph
started off as an au pair and then worked his way up to overseer over Potiphar's
house. If not for the false allegation that were made against him, Joseph may
have continued his upward trajectory. Instead, he was taken down to prison.

What happened to Joseph is not too different from what happens to people in this
day and age. As mentioned in the previous story, anyone may accuse a person of
certain actions through the public forum of their choosing. Sometimes, the
allegations that somebody makes public against a person are false. Although the
allegations are false, the public who hears the allegation believe them to be
true. And because they believe those allegations to be true, without fair trial
or due process, those who hear the allegations judge the accused as guilty and
mete out the punishment that they have sentenced the accused to. As mentioned in
the previous story, these include throwing verbal stones---such as shaming,
insults, vitriol, harassments, death threats, calls for them to resign or be
fired---at the accused. Like Joseph, the accused may also be imprisoned. While
Joseph was taken and put into a physical prison, in this day and age, the
accused are imprisoned by the false allegations that are made against them. Like
a ball and chain shackled to the accused, the false allegations may always be
attached to them. It may follow them everywhere they go, forever handcuffing
them and making it difficult for them to move forward with their lives.
Likewise, those who are accused may  become isolated from society as they are
deemed to be a scourge on society because of the false allegations made against
them. It is as if the accused has an incurable infectious disease that requires
them to be isolated and quarantined so that it does not spread to others. And it
is as if the accused are put into solitary confinement by society, never to be
released again, so that they may not harm others in society. But that ought not
to be! Just because a person decides to publicly accuse someone of some actions,
it does not mean that those allegations are true. Therefore, might I suggest
that you refrain from condemning people who have been publicly accused of
certain actions by others since those allegations may be false. Instead, might I
suggest that you follow the example that Jesus sets. Being falsely accused may
also happen to you. And, I reckon that you would prefer not to be condemned
because of the false allegations that someone made against you, nor would you
prefer to have your life and future derailed because of the false allegations
that someone made against you.

> But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy, and He gave him favor in
the sight of the keeper of the prison. <cite>Genesis 39:21 NKJV</cite>

Now, although Joseph found himself isolated from society because of the false
allegations that were made against him, he was not alone. The Lord was with him.
And, even though Joseph found himself abandoned by the rest of society, the Lord
did not abandon him. The Lord was with him. Although Joseph found himself in
prison because of the false allegations that were made against him, the Lord
made a way for him to be freed from the prison that he found himself in. Like
Joseph, if you happen to find yourself isolated from society by the people of
this world because they decided to believe the false allegations that someone
made against you, just believe and know with certainty in your heart that the
Lord is always with you. Furthermore, like Joseph, if you happen to find
yourself abandoned by the people of this world, just believe and know assuredly
that the Lord shall never abandon you. And, like Joseph, if you happen to find
yourself imprisoned by the false allegations that were made against you, then
just believe and know with certainty in your heart that the Lord shall make a
way to free you from the imprisonment that you are in. Now, you may wonder why
the Lord allowed such a thing to happen to you in the first place. Joseph may
have wondered the same thing whilst in prison. Whilst imprisoned and amidst the
turmoil that he was experiencing, the reason why the Lord allowed such a thing
to happen to him may have stayed hidden instead of being readily apparent.
Eventually, Joseph discovered why the Lord allowed this thing to happen to him
as it became apparent to him in the process of time. In the process of time,
Joseph realized: "God sent me ahead of you to establish you as a remnant within
the land and to keep you alive by a great deliverance. Therefore it was not you
who sent me here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh, lord of his
entire household, and ruler over all the land of Egypt" (Genesis 45:7–8 HCSB).
Joseph also realized: "You intended to harm me, but God intended it all for
good. He brought me to this position so I could save the lives of many people"
(Genesis 50:20 NLT). The many lives who were saved included his brothers, who
hated on him and thought about killing him, and, presumably, Potiphar and his
wife---the former being the one who imprisoned Joseph because of the false
allegations that the latter made against him. Like Joseph, the reasons why the
Lord allowed such a thing to happen to you may stay hidden instead of being
readily apparent to you whilst you are imprisoned and in the midst of the
turmoil that you are experiencing. And similarly to Joseph, you may eventually
discover why the Lord allowed this thing to happen to you as it becomes apparent
to you in the process of time. With some hindsight, you may realize what Joseph
realized: while those who spread false allegations against you and those who
judge you and condemn you because of those false allegations against you
intended to harm you, God intends this for good. And you may realize that God
brought you to this position that you are in so that you may save a multitude of
people, including: people who despise you, people who made allegations against
you, and people who believed those allegations and judged you as guilty and
meted out the punishment that they have sentenced you to.

Joseph was brought to Egypt by a caravan of Ishmaelite traders. That caravan of
Ishmaelite traders were in possession of him since one of Joseph's brothers,
Judah, had an epiphany: instead of killing him, let's sell him to this caravan
of Ishmaelite traders who happen to be passing through and going to Egypt. The
brothers who heard his idea agreed. So that is what they did. Judah and his
brothers sold their other brother, Joseph, to those Ishmaelites for twenty
shekels of silver. (Now, some may have heard that there is a caravan of people
travelling from one place to another place. The caravan contains people who
are coming from a place where they are hated, persecuted, and in danger and
going to a place where they hope to start anew. This is not too different from
Joseph who was hated by his brothers and in danger of being killed by them. And
similarly to Joseph, those in this caravan who reach their new country of
residence may find themselves employed as au pairs. The Lord may also have a
purpose for those who are in this caravan, though, like Joseph, those in the
caravan may not realize it at the moment. The Lord's purpose for the people in
this caravan may be to establish them within the land that they are travelling
to and saving a multitude of people. Like Joseph, the people that they save may
include the citizens of the land that they are travelling to as well as the
family that the people in this caravan had to leave behind in their original
country of residence. For, after Joseph became established within Egypt, the
rest of his family was able to migrate from their country of origin to be with
Joseph in Egypt. In this day and age, this might now be referred to as family
reunification or chain migration. Thus, although the people of this caravan may
experience challenges as they try to start their lives anew in their new country
of residence, the Lord certainly has a reason, a purpose for those in the
caravan. Just believe.)

At some point in time, Judah left his brothers to visit a friend. Whilst there,
Judah met and married a woman. They had three sons together: Er, Onan, and
Shelah. Judah found a woman named Tamar for his eldest son, Er, to marry. Some
time after Er married Tamar, he died. And then Onan died. Judah's wife
eventually died as well. One day, he chose to go some place with a friend. Upon
hearing about his plans, Tamar decided to cover herself with a veil and wrap
herself in order to disguise herself, and sit in an open place that was on the
way to the place that Judah was going. Upon seeing her, Judah propositioned her
because he thought that she was a harlot. After they negotiated and agreed upon
the terms and cost of their arrangement, he went into her.

> About three months later Judah was told, "Your daughter-in-law Tamar is guilty
of prostitution, and as a result she is now pregnant." Judah said, "Bring her
out and have her burned to death!" <cite>Genesis 38:24 NIV</cite>

When Tamar was found to be with child, she was accused of prostitution. Her
father-in-law, Judah, heard the accusations that were made against her. Now, as
mentioned in the previous story, when you hear about the actions of a person
from someone who chose to bring to light the actions of that person, you have a
choice on how to respond. You may respond in a like manner to those who heard
the allegations that the scribes and Pharisees made against that woman caught in
the act of adultery---by judging the accused of being guilty and meting out the
punishment that you have sentenced them to, all without a fair trial or due
process. Or you may respond in a like manner to Jesus when he heard the scribes'
and Pharisees' accusations against the woman caught in the very act of
adultery---not by condemning them but by standing up for them and standing by
their side. Judah chose the former. Judah said, "Bring her out and have her
burned to death!" Without a fair trial or due process, Judah chose to judge her
as guilty and sentence her to be burned to death. However, as mentioned in the
previous story, rather than responding in that manner, Jesus recommends that you
direct your gaze inwards to evaluate yourself to see if you are with or without
sin. And if you take the time to do that, you shall be convicted by your
conscience as it brings to light your sins in a similar manner to how the people
who heard the accusations that the scribes and Pharisees made against the woman
caught in adultery were convicted by their conscience. And as mentioned in the
previous story, it is possible that one day someone can decide to bring to light
those sins of yours on the public forum of their choice. And if that happens, I
reckon that you would prefer mercy rather than condemnation from those who heard
the accusations made against you.

Judah found himself in such a situation.

> When she was brought out, she sent to her father-in-law, saying, "By the man
to whom these belong, I am with child." And she said, "Please determine whose
these are---the signet and cord, and staff." So Judah acknowledged them and
said, "She has been more righteous than I, because I did not give her to Shelah
my son." And he never knew her again. <cite>Genesis 38:25–26 NKJV</cite>

The signet and cord, and staff belongs to her father-in-law. Thus, Judah is the
father of the child that Tamar is with. Upon seeing his signet and cord, and
staff, Judah was convicted by his conscience as it brought to light the sins
that he is with. Upon seeing his signet and cord, and staff, Judah realized he
is with sin. Likewise, I reckon that he realized that Tamar could have brought
to light those sins of his by making them known to others, in a similar manner
to how her actions were made known to Judah by others. And if that were to
happen to him, I reckon that Judah realized that the people who hear about those
actions of his may judge him as guilty and mete out the punishment that they
sentence him to in a similar fashion to how he judged her as guilty and
sentenced her to be burned to death. And I reckon that he realized that he would
prefer that he be shown mercy by those who hear about those actions of his
rather than be condemned by them. I reckon that Judah also ascertained that he
is not more righteous than Tamar, for he said, "She has been more righteous than
I...", thus he does not have the moral authority to condemn her. Likewise, I
reckon that, since we are all with sin, we are no more righteous than others.
Therefore, we ought not to condemn others, for we are not morally superior to
others. What we are is a people who are with sin. And yet, even though we are
with sin, we are loved. Loved by the Lord. Loved by Jesus. We are never
condemned by Him; rather, we are all beloved by Him. Therefore, might I suggest
that you do likewise---that you refrain from condemning others irregardless of
the sins that they are allegedly with. Instead, might I recommend that you love
everyone irregardless of their alleged sins in a similar manner to how Jesus
loves you irregardless of your sins.

Joseph and Judah. Two brothers. One was despised by the other. One of them was a
lowly slave who was falsely accused and condemned for certain actions;
meanwhile, the other one acquitted himself as someone who has the moral
authority to condemn someone of being a harlot, a person who is despised by
others. And yet, the Lord used Joseph, the lowly slave falsely accused and
condemned for certain actions, to become established in the land of Egypt and
save a multitude of people, while Judah, who acquitted himself as somebody with
the moral authority to judge and condemn others, was brought to nothing by
people who are lowly and despised, first by someone who was despised for
harlotry, and later by Joseph who was despised by his brothers. Thus, the Lord
lifts up the lowly and despised who are brought down by people who condemn them
for certain actions that others accuse them of. Conversely, the Lord brings down
(humbles) those who self-righteously condemn people who are lowly and despised
for the actions that others accuse them of. And as we can see from the tales of
these two brothers, the Lord may bring down those who self-righteously condemn
people by using the very same people that they condemned to bring them down. So,
although you may be lowly and despised according to the eyes of the world, you
are not lowly and despised in the eyes of the Lord. Likewise, although you may
think yourself as morally superior to others, the Lord may not have the same
view of you. Therefore, humble yourselves lest the Lord humble you for you.

God bless.
