---
categories: [Life]
tags: [Parables, Stages Of Faith, Idioms]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Parables are like encrypted messages. Only those with the decryption key may
  understand the message. Jesus has given us the decryption key.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/51641543-654fcd80-1f34-11e9-8c9e-1c3fca6d345b.jpg
---

> His disciples asked him what this parable meant.
>
He said, "The knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of God has been given to
you, but to others I speak in parables, so that, 'though seeing, they may not
see; though hearing, they may not understand.'" <cite>Luke 8:9–10 NIV</cite>

Parables, in this day and age, may be viewed as encrypted messages. Although
they are encrypted, the messages are not private or inaccessible. Rather, the
encrypted messages are publicly available. Anyone can access the encrypted
messages in the Scriptures and read them. And anyone may share the encrypted
messages to others. Jesus Himself shared many parables to multitudes who
gathered to hear Him. Though public, not everyone has the decryption key needed
to decipher the encrypted messages. Without the decryption key, they can see the
message, but only in encrypted form. In this form, however, the encrypted
messages are meaningless to readers. This is why Jesus said, "although seeing,
they may not see; although hearing, they may not understand." Messages that are
encrypted with a well-designed encryption scheme may not be deciphered without
the decryption key. That is why those without the decryption key may see and
hear the message, however what they see is in an encrypted form so they do not
understand the message; rather it is without meaning to them. Only those with
the decryption key may understand the message. And the decryption key is held by
the One who encrypted the message. In this case, Jesus. Now, Jesus has not kept
the decryption key to Himself. Instead, He shared the decryption key to His
disciples so that they may know the secrets of the kingdom of God. And with this
decryption key, the parable of the sower was deciphered so that His disciples
may understand the underlying message of that parable that He shared to them
while the great multitude of others who had gathered and also heard Jesus share
the parable of the sower were left without understanding of its deeper meaning.

> Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. Those by the wayside are
the ones who hear; then the devil comes and takes away the word out of their
hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. <cite>Luke 8:11–12 NKJV</cite>

As mentioned in the previous story, you may cultivate a relationship with the
Lord God by regularly praying to and communing with Him. And through this
relationship that you cultivate with Him, the Lord God may respond to your
prayers and communications with Him. The Lord God may also give you some
foresight into what is to come in your life as well as some advice on what to do
or not to do so that life rather than death befalls any aspect of your life. And
when this happens, the serpent (devil) might spring into action and use one of
the tactics in his toolbox. The serpent may try to get you to doubt in your
heart that the Lord God said what you think He said by getting you think that
you are mistaken to think that it really was the Lord God's voice that you
heard. And if the serpent is successful in employing this tactic against you,
then you may be like the ones by the wayside who hear the word of God but has it
taken out of their hearts by the devil so that you do not believe that you
really heard the Lord God speaking to you. As mentioned here as well as in the
previous story, the serpent does this because he fears us believing and being
saved if we were to believe that we really heard the voice of the Lord God.

> And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it
with joy. But these have no root; they believe for a while, and in time of
testing fall away. <cite>Luke 8:13 ESV</cite>

As it was mentioned in the previous story, if the serpent is not successful in
his attempts at getting you to doubt in your heart that the Lord God said what
you think He said, then the serpent may try to employ another one of his tactics
in his toolbox. The serpent may try to get you to doubt in your heart the
veracity of what you believe the Lord God said. For example, the Lord God may
inform you that doing something will certainly result in the death of a
friendship. You may initially believe what the Lord God said to you. Then, the
serpent may spring into action and use one of his tactics to get you to doubt
the veracity of what the Lord God said to you. If the serpent succeeds in
employing this tactic against you, then you may be like those on the rocks who
hear the word of God and receive it with joy. They believe for a while but then
stop believing in the word of God that they heard because the serpent was
successful in getting them to doubt the veracity of what the Lord God said. And
as is mentioned in the last story, the serpent does this so that you fall away
from the Lord God as well as lose faith in Him and what He says to you.

> As for what fell among the thorns, these are the ones who hear; but as they go
on their way, they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and
their fruit does not mature. <cite>Luke 8:14 NRSV</cite>

As it was mentioned in the previous story, the serpent may also try to get you
to pursue things which seems desirable and beneficial from your standpoint,
instead of following the plan that the Lord God has for you. The serpent may try
to do this by outlining all the benefits of pursuing that which seems desirable
whilst minimizing all the consequences. For example, the Lord God may tell you
to not buy that house in that neighbourhood. When the Lord God does that, the
serpent may spring into action and attempt to get you to do what the Lord God
said not to by outlining all the seemingly desirable and beneficial qualities of
buying that house, such as, perhaps, its price, the neighbourhood that it is
located in, and its closeness to your workplace. If the serpent is successful in
using this tactic against you, then you may be like those who fell among the
thorns: those who hear the word of God but do not follow the advice that the
Lord God gave them. Instead, they follow their own desires and plans in life.
And in the process of time, they are choked by the cares and riches and
pleasures of life. They do not grow or mature, nor do they bear fruit that may
nourish (bless) others. And as is mentioned in the previous story, the serpent
does this so that you do not follow or fulfill the Lord God's plans for your
life.

By the wayside. On the rock. Among the thorns. Besides being a description of
those who fell victim to the tricks of the serpent, the parable of the sower
also describes the different stages that each and every one of us progresses
through in their walk of faith in the Lord God. Every one of us start by the
wayside. You may currently be by the wayside as well. If that is so, that is
great. Every one of us was by the wayside at some point. Many still are. Like
those who are currently by the wayside, you might have initially heard the word
of God through a source---such as a preacher, family member, friend, or blog
that you came across while surfing on the Internet. If this is the case, then
may I encourage you to continue to hear the word of God through your source
because that source may help explain the word of God to you, similarly to how
Jesus explained the meaning of the parable of the sower to His disciples. And I
hope that you eventually make the personal decision to believe in the word of
God that was shared to you and profess your faith in Jesus so that you shall be
saved. However, as it was mentioned above, the serpent does not want you to
believe in the word of God you heard lest you be saved. And so, like a thief,
the serpent tries to take the word of God that you heard out of your heart. If
successful, the word of God that you heard is discarded, ignored, rejected or
set aside. In essence, the word of God falls by the wayside. You may have heard
that idiom before. This may be where it came from. If you do choose to believe
in the Lord God because of the word of God that was shared to you by your
source, then congratulations, for you have now progressed to the next stage in
your walk of faith in the Lord God: on the rocks. And when you do that, I hope
that it is not the end of your walk of faith. Instead, I hope that it is the
beginning of a relationship that you build with the Lord God.

Once you get to this step in your walk of faith in the Lord God, you will
receive the word of God with joy and faith. However, after a while, you stop
believing in the word of God as well as lose faith in the Lord God due to the
challenging situations that you experience. In other words, the relationship
that you started to build with the Lord God is on the rocks---experiencing
difficulties or storms that may cause the relationship to end. You may have
heard of that idiom before. I reckon that this is where it originated from. Of
course, as you may know, each and every one of us may go through challenging
situations that may test a relationship. You may go through a challenging
situation that tests your relationship with your friends or family. And you may
also experience challenging situations that test your relationship with a
significant other. Now, the relationship that you decided to cultivate with the
Lord God is no different. It too shall be tested during the challenging
situations that you go through. And during these challenging situations that you
may go through, I hope that you conclude that the relationship that you are
cultivating with the Lord God is worth continuing, rather than ending it. As is
mentioned in previous stories, Jesus experienced challenging situations. As did
Joseph. Yet, despite the challenging situations that they experienced, both of
them decided to continue the relationship they cultivated with the Lord God
because both of them found their relationship with the Lord God worthy to be
continued. I hope that you do as well. And as it was mentioned in previous
stories, the Lord God is with you during those challenging situations; He may
help you get through them since He understands what you are going through. And
so, endure, for relationships that survive the trying times strengthen the bond
between those in the relationship. It may also increase the love between those
in the relationship. And with this strengthened bond and increased love between
you and the Lord God, you may learn to trust in Him because He has your best
interests at heart and knows what is best for you. However, if your relationship
with the Lord God does end because of the challenging situations that you
experienced, then your faith in Him may fall by the wayside and you may regress
to the previous stage. On the other hand, if your relationship with the Lord God
survives those trying times that you have experienced, you may progress to the
next stage in your walk of faith in the Lord God: among the thorns.

Unlike *by the wayside* or *on the rocks*, as far as I know, *among the thorns*
is not an idiom. Irregardless, in this stage of your walk of faith in the Lord
God, you hear and believe in the word of God, however, you do not grow or mature
nor bear fruit because you are choked by the cares, riches, and pleasures of
life. Now, just to be clear so that you do not get the wrong impression: there
is nothing inherently amiss about cares, riches, and pleasures of life. Nor is
there anything inherently amiss about desiring cares or riches or pleasures of
life. It is only considered amiss if you put your desire and love of cares,
riches and pleasures of life ahead of your desire and love of the Lord God. For
example, cares in and of itself are not inherently amiss. There is nothing
inherently amiss about caring and having passion for your job or business or
hobby. This is only amiss if your cares and passion for them exceed your cares
and passion for the Lord God. Likewise, riches or money is not inherently amiss
because money may be used for a multitude of wonderful things. For example,
money may be used to purchase food to feed you and your family. And money may be
used to buy a house for your family. Money may be used to buy necessities. And
money may be used to help others. So there is nothing inherently amiss with
money in and of itself. It is only amiss when you place your desire for and love
of money ahead of your desire for and love of the Lord God. And likewise, the
pleasures of life in and of itself are not inherently amiss. For example, there
is nothing inherently amiss about experiential things like a good movie or
vacation or restaurant. Nor is it inherently amiss to desire material things
like cars, clothing, and collectibles. These experiential and material things
are only considered amiss if they are desired and loved by you more than you
desire and love the Lord God. In essence, the things of life (cares, riches, and
pleasures) are only amiss if those things inform your life and life choices
rather than the Lord God. And the things of life are only amiss if you desire,
love and pursue them ahead of loving, desiring and pursuing the Lord God. This
may not be too different from other relationships that you may have. For
example, you may have a relationship with a significant other. And if you decide
to put other things and people ahead of your significant other whilst your
significant other puts you ahead of other things and people, your significant
other may think that something is amiss. Your significant other may think that
you are taking advantage of them. Your significant other might also think that
you do not care or love or desire them as much as the other things and people
that you are focused on. And your significant other may also feel like the love
that they have for you is an unrequited love. And because of this, your
relationship with your significant other does not grow deeper, nor does it
mature and bear fruit. And when such a thing happens, your relationship with
your significant other may regress from among the thorns and back to on the
rocks. Now, such a thing may also happen to your relationship with the Lord God
if you were to focus on other things and people ahead Him. It could seem like
you are taking advantage of the Lord God. And it may seem like the Lord God's
love for you is unrequited. Thus, I suggest that you love and desire the Lord
God ahead of all else. In this way you may progress to the next stage in your
walk of faith in the Lord God: in the good ground.

> But the seed in the good ground---these are the ones who, having heard the
word with an honest and good heart, hold on to it and by enduring, bear fruit.
<cite>Luke 8:15 HCSB</cite>

Now, those who are in the good ground hears the word of God with an honest and
good heart. And having heard the word of God, they hold onto it and bear fruit
by enduring. Now, although you have reached this stage in your walk of faith in
the Lord God, it does not mean the serpent stops trying to employ his tactics
against you. It is, in fact, quite the contrary. Similarly to those by the
wayside, the serpent still tries to take away the word of God out of your heart.
However, unlike those who are by the wayside, the serpent does not succeed in
taking the word of God out of your heart; instead, you hold on to it. And
similarly to those who are on the rock, you shall still experience challenging
times. And the serpent shall still try to get you to lose faith in the Lord God,
doubt the veracity of what He says to you, and fall away from Him. However,
unlike those who are on the rock, you shall not let the challenging situations
cause you to lose faith in the Lord God or doubt the veracity of word of God;
instead, the relationship that you built with the Lord God shall not end but
endure and strengthen as you experience those challenging situations. And like
those among the thorns, the serpent shall still attempt to get you to pursue
that which seems desirable and beneficial to you rather than pursuing the plans
that the Lord God has for you so that you are choked by the cares, riches, and
pleasures of life. However, unlike those who are among the thorns, you shall not
be fruitless because you stunted your growth and maturity by loving, desiring,
and pursuing cares, riches, and pleasures of life rather than loving, desiring,
and pursuing the Lord God; instead, you shall bear fruit because you chose to
put the Lord God above all else. When you reach this stage in your walk of faith
in the Lord God, you have shown yourself to have an honest and good heart. What
this means is that you have shown to be faithful to the Lord God. And because
you have shown yourself to be faithful to the Lord God, He may entrust you and
give you more, including knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of God.

By the wayside. On the rock. Among the thorns. In good ground. Besides being an
apt description of the stages that a person progresses through in their walk of
faith in the Lord God, the parable of the sower also describes the Lord God's
unending love for you. And because of the Lord God's unending love for you, He
never leave you nor does He stop chasing after you irregardless of the choices
that you make. For, if you are currently among the thorns and you decide to
pursue the cares and riches and pleasures of life rather than the Lord God,
resulting in you regressing to on the rocks, the Lord God does not stop pursuing
you. He continues to speak to you and pursue you whilst you are on the rocks.
Likewise, if your relationship with the Lord God is currently on the rock
because of challenging situations that you experience and you decide to end your
relationship with the Lord God, resulting in you regressing to by the wayside,
the Lord God does not stop pursuing you. For, even though you are by the
wayside, the Lord God continues to speak to you. In fact, the Lord God speaks to
you and pursues you no matter what stage you are in. That is why you hear the
word of God at each stage. At no stage in your walk of faith does the Lord God
choose not to speak to you or pursue you. That is a testament of the Lord God's
unending love for you. And that is also a testament of His faithfulness to you.
It is also a testament of His desire to begin and cultivate a relationship with
you. Will you accept His invitation? It is a personal decision that you shall
have to make but I hope that you do accept His invitation, for I believe that it
is the bestest choice that you may make.

God bless.
