---
categories: [Life]
tags: [Life And Death]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Eternal life is the Lord God's intent for all of us. His intent was derailed
  when death was birthed. However, the Lord made a way for you to realize His
  intent.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/52007819-54a3d800-249d-11e9-8a3d-d912817e33a4.jpg
---

> For "everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved." But how can
they call on him to save them unless they believe in him? And how can they
believe in him if they have never heard about him? And how can they hear about
him unless someone tells them? <cite>Romans 10:13â€“14 NLT</cite>

In the previous stories it was recommended that you cultivate a relationship
with the Lord God. This suggestion also outlined some of the benefits that you
may gain from cultivating a relationship with Him, such as being forewarned when
certain actions shall certainly result in death as well as receiving help whilst
amidst the challenges that you may experience. Of course, to cultivate a
relationship with the Lord God, you must first believe in Him. And for you to
believe in Him, you must first hear about Him. And, as mentioned in a previous
story, you might hear about Him through a source---such as a preacher or family
member or friend or blog that you may discover while perusing the Internet. Now,
this may not be different from the relationships that you have with others. If
you have not heard of a person, then you would not know of that person's
existence. And if you do not know of that person's existence, then you cannot
cultivate a relationship with that person. Now, the serpent does not want you to
believe in the word of God that you heard lest you believe in Him and be saved.
You may be wondering what you are being saved from. And you may also be
wondering about why you need to be saved as you may not even think that you are
in peril. You may also be wondering why calling on the name of the Lord because
you believe in Him results in you being saved. Thus, this story shall try to
answer those considerations of yours so that you may understand the reasons why
each and every one of us needs to believe in Him and call on the name of the
Lord to be saved. And now, to answer those considerations of yours, it is
inevitable that I broach the subject of sin, so bear with me in this matter.

> But whoever has doubts is condemned if they eat, because their eating is not
from faith; and everything that does not come from faith is sin. <cite>Romans
14:23 NIV</cite>
>
But if you have doubts about whether or not you should eat something, you are
sinning if you go ahead and do it. For you are not following your convictions.
If you do anything you believe is not right, you are sinning. <cite>Romans 14:23
NLT</cite>

As it was mentioned in a previous story, Adam and Eve never ate from the tree of
life because death was not a concern for them until they chose to eat the fruit
from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Before those two decided to do
such a thing, they never had a reason to eat from the tree of life because death
did not exist. In other words, if not for this decision that they made, those
two would still be alive in this day and age. (Of course, this is presuming that
none of their descendants decide to eat from that tree as well in the course of
time.) In essence, the Lord God's original intent when He created Adam and Eve
was for them to live for eternity. The Lord God did not create Adam and Eve just
so they would eventually die. Not at all! The Lord God created Adam and Eve, man
and woman, with eternal life in mind. The Lord God's original intent for Adam
and Eve is also His intent for all of us. Eternal life is the Lord God's intent
for all of us. (I reckon this intent also extended to all of the beast of the
earth as well as all of the birds of the air and creatures that move on the
ground since the Lord God only gave them every green herb for food when He
created them. And so, those creatures would not have killed each other to eat as
food; instead, all of the creatures were vegan. I reckon that the Lord God's
original intent was for each man, woman, and living creature---beast of the
earth, cattle, those that move along the ground, those that abound in the water,
as well as birds of the air---to live harmoniously together. Of course, as you
may be able to tell through perusing the daily news headlines or your social
media feeds, such an intent is certainly not being realized in this day and
age.) For, the Lord God's original intent for Adam and Eve (and the rest of us)
was derailed when they made the choice to eat the fruit from the tree of the
knowledge of good and evil. Now, as mentioned in a previous story, this decision
to eat from that tree was contrary to what the Lord God told them to do. The
Lord God told Adam and Eve: "You are free to eat from any tree in the garden;
but you must not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, for when
you eat from it you will certainly die." They made the decision to eat from that
tree because they did not believe in what the Lord God said to them; they
instead believed what the serpent said to them. Because of their lack of belief
in what the Lord God said to them, they disobeyed Him. In other words, they
sinned against the Lord God. Sin is doing some action that does not come from
faith. Sin is doing some action even though you lack conviction on whether or
not you should do that action. (It is, of course, not limited to eating; it is
just an example used by the Scriptures above.) And through this sin of theirs
came the ironic birth of death. Death was birthed through this sin of theirs
because the Lord God explicitly told them that they shall certainly die when
they eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. As mentioned in the
previous stories, when you cultivate a relationship with the Lord God, you may
get to know His character along with His voice. Well, one of the characteristics
of the Lord God that you may discover is that He cannot lie. Therefore, when
Adam and Eve chose to disobey (sin against) the Lord God, death had to be
birthed. If death did not birth because of their actions, that would make the
Lord God into a liar. It is just unfortunate that the death that was birthed was
not limited to just those two. Instead, the death that was birthed spread to all
of us like an infectious disease.

Since Adam and Eve's decision, sin and its resulting consequence (death) has
been a governing force of nature. It is, in essence, like gravity, one of the
other governing forces of nature. According to this law, gravity is a force that
acts between two objects causing them to be attracted to each other. That is
why, when you throw an object up, it shall eventually come back down. This is
because the gravity of the earth attracts the thrown object back toward it. In
the law of sin and death, those who sin shall eventually die. As mentioned in a
previous story, all of us have sinned, thus all of us shall eventually die. Also
mentioned in a previous story: life is not the only thing that may be considered
dead. Thus, the death that is mentioned here is not just referring to the death
of your life. It is also referring to the death of your innocence (according to
the law of sin and death) in the eyes of God. Like the law of gravity, the law
of sin and death is a governing force of nature that is still in effect in this
day and age. Although this law came into existence, the Lord God still desires
for His original intent for each and every one of us to come to pass. The Lord
God still desires for each and every one of us to have eternal life. And for
this desire of His to come to fruition, we need to be justified in the eyes of
God so that we may be found innocent according to the law of sin and death, and
thereby not face the consequence of that law (death). Now, to understand how God
accomplishes such a thing, we shall now be taking a little dip into the history
of the people of Israel.

> Why, then, was the law given? It was given alongside the promise to show
people their sins. But the law was designed to last only until the coming of the
child who was promised. God gave his law through angels to Moses, who was the
mediator between God and the people. <cite>Galatians 3:19 NLT</cite>

As it is mentioned in the Scriptures above, God gave His law through angels to
Moses. This law is not referring to the law of sin and death that was broached
earlier. The law mentioned in the Scriptures above includes: the commandments,
various laws as well as the punishments that shall be applied to those who
transgress those laws, the establishment of various holidays, sacrifices, and
offerings that are to be observed, description of the roles and responsibilities
of officials, and the construction of various structures where those officials
would be serving. This may be similar to those who may rule over others, such as
a president or prime minister of a country. The prime minister of a country may
enact a law and a corresponding punishment that shall be applied to those who
transgress that law. For example, a law may be enacted to fine those who speed
or litter. And a president might establish new holidays, such as Christmas and
Thanksgiving, that the citizens of the country may observe. The ruler of a
country might also describe the roles and responsibilities of the officials
serving under the ruler's administration as well as the location where they are
to serve in their roles. For example, the ruler of a nation may appoint
different people to the role of vice president and chief of staff and the head
of a department or ministry, with each role serving out of offices that are
located in a different place. Now, God did not give the law through Moses
because He is an authoritarian who desires to limit the freedoms of the people
of Israel by regulating every aspect of their life. Not at all! As it was
mentioned in a previous story, each and every one of us has free will and the
freedom to make our own decisions. Instead, God gave the law to the people of
Israel in order to show them that they are all with sin by bringing to light all
of their sins. Through the law came knowledge of sin. If the people of Israel
had not known that which is sin, then they would also not have known that they
sinned. This may not be too different from other countries that enact laws for
its citizens and residents to follow. For example, if you do not know the laws
of the nation that you are currently in (maybe because you are just there on
vacation), then you would also not know whether or not you are breaking the laws
of that country unless you are told by someone (or are arrested). However, if
you know the laws of a nation (maybe because you are a citizen or resident),
then you may also know whether or not doing something goes against one of those
laws. Thus, with knowledge of laws come knowledge of when you are disobeying
those laws.

You may be wondering what any of this has to do with you. You may also think
that the law that God gave to the people of Israel through Moses is from a
different time period, therefore it is not relevant to you in this day and age.
And you may also think that these laws do not apply to you because they were
given to a people who are citizens of a nation that is different from the
country that you are a citizen or resident of. Rather, you may think that only
the rules and regulations of the countries that you are a citizen and resident
of apply to you. As an example, you might observe the holidays of the country in
which you hold citizenship and residency. However, you might not observe
holidays that are exclusive to the countries that you are not a citizen or
resident of. Likewise, a country may enact laws which limit the speed that
vehicles may travel. However, you may currently be living in a nation without
laws that limit the speed of vehicles on their motorways. If that is the case,
you can travel on motorways at speeds that are limited by only the current road
and traffic conditions as well as your moxie (or, as some might say,
recklessness). And when you do that, you will not be transgressing the speed
limit law of the other country because you are not a current resident of that
country. As such, the country with the speed limit law cannot penalize you
because you are not a current resident of that country, thus their laws do not
apply to you. Therefore, because the law that God gave to the people of Israel
is not applicable to you, you may think that you cannot transgress those laws.
And since you cannot transgress laws that are not applicable to you, you may
also think that you cannot be judged guilty of transgressing those laws. (I am
using a human argument here.) And if you can make such a case, then you may be
viewed as a Gentile.

> Even Gentiles, who do not have God's written law, show that they know his law
when they instinctively obey it, even without having heard it. They demonstrate
that God's law is written in their hearts, for their own conscience and thoughts
either accuse them or tell them they are doing right. <cite>Romans 2:14â€“15
NLT</cite>

The law is written in your hearts. And you demonstrate your knowledge of God's
written law when you instinctively obey it, even without having heard it, for
your own thoughts and conscience tells you whether or not you are doing that
which is right or wrong. In other words, each and every one of us has a set of
morals that are written in our hearts. From these morals that are written in our
hearts, we may conscientiously determine whether something is right or wrong.
For example, in a previous story it was mentioned that a person may decide to
bring to light the actions or words of someone by publicly sharing those actions
or words on the social media platform of their choice to multitudes of peoples
who do not know that someone. And when that happens, the multitudes who hear
about the actions or words of that someone might decide to judge that person
guilty and mete out the punishment that they have sentenced that someone to.
While the previous story did not recommend for you to judge and sentence the
someone for the actions or words that were brought to light by a person, the
judgement that was rendered by the multitude of people who heard about the
actions or words of that someone may have been based on their view of what is
right or wrong. And this view may be based on God's law that is written in their
heart. Rather, the previous story recommends that you direct your gaze inwards
and evaluate yourself and see if you are with or without sin. And when you do
that you shall be convicted by your conscience as it brings to light the sins
that you are with. For, all are with sin. Not one is without sin. And because we
are all with sin, we all are also subject to the consequence of sin (death).

You may be wondering why a person would not be considered innocent in God's
sight if a person were to always obey the law. I tell you the truth: it is not
the purpose of the law to justify a person in God's sight. As mentioned, the
purpose of the law is to make a person become conscious of sin. The law is not
meant to perform a function that it was not designed to do in a similar fashion
to how a printer is not meant to brew coffee. No! The function of a printer is
to print and nothing more since that is the purpose for which it was designed
for. And so, obedience of the law does not justify you in God's sight because
that is not the purpose of the law. And since obedience of the law does not
justify you in God's sight, there had to be something that was designed for the
purpose of justifying you in the sight of God so that you may be found innocent
according to the law, and thereby not face the consequence (death). And that
something is faith in Jesus Christ.

> This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe.
There is no difference between Jew and Gentile, for all have sinned and fall
short of the glory of God, and all are justified freely by his grace through the
redemption that came by Christ Jesus. <cite>Romans 3:22â€“24 NIV</cite>
>
Therefore there is now no condemnation [no guilty verdict, no punishment] for
those who are in Christ Jesus [who believe in Him as personal Lord and Savior].
For the law of the Spirit of life [which is] in Christ Jesus [the law of our new
being] has set you free from the law of sin and of death. <cite>Romans 8:1â€“2
AMP</cite>

Faith in Jesus Christ justifies all of us in the eyes of the God. And because
this faith justifies us in His sight, we are freed from the consequence of the
law of sin and death. And since those who believe are freed from the consequence
of the law of sin and death, the original intent that the Lord God has for each
and every one of us---eternal life---may be realized by all who believe in Him.
As a matter of fact, faith has always been the Lord God's method to accomplish
His desire for each and every one of us to have eternal life. We can see this in
the story of Adam and Eve that was mentioned near the beginning. If Adam and Eve
had made the decision to believe in the Lord God instead of the serpent (and
continued to believe in the Lord God over the serpent in subsequent matters),
then those two would surely still be alive in this day and age. In other words,
if Adam and Eve never doubt the Lord God in any matter, then those two would
surely still be alive in this day and age. (Now, of course this is again
presuming that none of their descendants birth death by sinning against the Lord
God.) In essence, eternal life through faith in the Lord God has always been His
intent. And this intent of the Lord God's is not just for Adam and Eve; it is,
in fact, for each and every one of us. For God has not destined us for wrath,
but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so
that whether we are awake or asleep, we will live together with Him (1
Thessalonians 5:9â€“10 NASB). We were always destined to obtain salvation through
faith in our Lord Jesus Christ rather than face the consequence of the law of
sin and death. And that is evident in the story of Adam and Eve. Now, you may
have noticed that those who put their faith in Jesus Christ still experience
death in a like fashion to those who do not believe in Jesus Christ. This is
true. However, the death of those who believe is temporary; it is not permanent.
Regardless of whether or not those who place their faith in Jesus Christ are
awake (still alive) or asleep (have died) when He returns, they shall all live
together with Him. And at that time, the life of those who put their faith in
Jesus Christ shall be permanent; it shall not be temporary. Therefore, this
Christmas, in addition to receiving and accepting gifts from your friends and
family and significant other, may I make the recommendation that you accept the
free gift of life that you shall receive when you believe and call on the name
of the Lord: Jesus.

Merry Christmas and God bless.
