---
categories: [World]
tags: [American Dream, Credible Fear, Migrant Caravan]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  The Lord made people poor in their ability to attain the American Dream so
  that they would become rich in faith in the Lord instead of rich in faith in
  their own ability.
hero:
  -
    image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/53928036-af10f500-4056-11e9-9032-c6db26a5dd13.png
---

As was mentioned in previous stories, the people of Israel during the days when
the sons of Samuel reigned were not content with the system that favoured the
rich and the elites. This is because the people of Israel who were not a part of
the elite felt like the leaders only fought for and helped those considered a
part of the elite in a quid quo pro, thus exacerbating the inequality between
those who are rich and poor, elite and not elite. Thus, the people of Israel
wanted change. However, instead of turning to their God to fight for them and
save them from this system of corruption and inequality that was created, the
people of Israel desired an outsider to become their leader. Thus, they elected
Saul to become their leader who would fight for them even though the people of
Israel already have a God who has proven, time and again, able and willing to
fight for them and save them when they ask Him to help and save them.

One such time was during the days when the people of Israel lived in Egypt. In
the days when they lived in Egypt, there arose a new king who did not know
Joseph and all that he did. This new king felt like the people of Israel
threatened the Egyptians' way of life. This is because the Egyptian race was
always the dominant race in Egypt whilst the people of Israel were of the
minority race of immigrants living in Egypt. However, in the process of time the
people of Israel grew and multiplied, threatening the Egyptians as the dominant
race in society. The king of Egypt felt like if the trend continued, then the
Egyptians would lose their way of life and position as the dominant race in
society as the people of Israel would become the dominant race in Egypt. And so,
in response to this fear, the new king of Egypt enacted nationalist policies
that favoured the Egyptians (the dominant, native race in Egypt) over the
Israelites (the immigrants and minority, non-native race in Egypt), thereby
exacerbating the inequality between the races. This was done out of fear to
preserve the Egyptians' way of life and ensure that they continue to be the
dominant race in Egypt whilst the people of Israel continued to be the minority
and powerless race in Egypt.

Because of the nationalist policies that were enacted, the people of Israel
cried out to the Lord for help. Their cry for help rose up to God. As a response
to their cries for help, the Lord said to Moses (who had fled from Egypt to
Midian after the king of Egypt found out that he killed an Egyptian): Behold,
the cry of the children of Israel has come to Me, and I have also seen the
oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them. Come now, therefore, and I
will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring My people, the children of Israel,
out of Egypt" (Exodus 3:9–10 NKJV). In other words, the Lord chose a person who
was a part of the immigrant minority race and got away with the killing of a
native of Egypt to bring His people out of Egypt.

Likewise, in this day and age, the Lord may select people to go and help those
in need. The people that the Lord selects shall be imperfect, for as it was
mentioned in previous stories, all are imperfect, for all have sinned. Thus, the
Lord may select someone whom people of this world view as morally suspect. The
Lord may select people who have broken the law (such as those who cross the
border illegally, or those who have sexually assaulted others, or those who have
murdered others) to help those in need. Yes, the Lord is willing to choose and
use anyone for His purposes, for, if perfection were a prerequisite to being
chosen and used by God, then everyone would be disqualified since all are not
perfect because all have sinned. Of course, the people that He chooses has to
agree to be used by Him, for as mentioned in previous stories, we all have free
will and the freedom to make our own decisions, thus we may choose whether or
not to be used by Him. Moses himself was initially reluctant. After the Lord
shared His plans to Moses, he said in response: "Who am I that I should go to
Pharaoh, and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?" (Exodus
3:11) Moses felt that he was unworthy of such a calling. He may have felt
unworthy of such a calling because of his past actions (killing a person). Like
Moses, when the Lord calls us to do something, we may feel unworthy of such a
calling because of our past actions. However, we ought not to think like that!
No matter what we did in the past, the Lord shall always love us. No matter what
we did in the past the Lord shall never leave us. And, as mentioned above, the
Lord is willing to use anyone, irregardless of their past, for His purposes. In
addition to feeling unworthy, Moses also felt incapable of accomplishing what
the Lord called him to do because he was slow of speech and tongue. In other
words, Moses had a speech impediment. Like Moses, we too may feel like we lack
the abilities that are required to do the things that the Lord asks us to do.
However, we ought not to think like that! As the Lord said to Moses: "I will be
with you." Like Moses, the Lord is always with you. And as was mentioned in the
previous story, the battle is the Lord's, thus He shall fight for you so that
you shall accomplish all that He calls you to do. Eventually, Moses agreed to do
what the Lord called him to do. Like Moses, many of us are called by the Lord.
However, unlike Moses, many of us decline to accept their calling. This may be
because of the reasons stated above. It could also be because they do not want
to do what the Lord calls them to do; instead, they prefer to do what they want
to do, therefore they ignore the Lord's call. However, may I suggest that you
respond when the Lord calls you to do something rather than ignore the Lord or
think that you are unworthy or incapable of answering His call. Instead of
ignoring Him, say to Him: "Here I am." Instead of thinking that you are
unworthy, just remember that the Lord thinks you are worthy. And instead of
thinking that you are incapable, just remember that the Lord is always with you.

You may wonder why the Lord would select a person who murdered someone, and got
away with it, to bring the people of Israel out of Egypt. To understand why the
Lord chose Moses, I reckon you just have to consider your calling: Not many are
wise from a human perspective, not many powerful, not many of noble birth.
Instead, God has chosen what is foolish in the world to shame the wise, and God
has chosen what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God has chosen what is
insignificant and despised in the world---what is viewed as nothing---to bring
to nothing what is viewed as something, so that no one can boast in His presence
(1 Corinthians 1:26–29 HCSB).

I reckon that is why the Lord chose Moses to lead His people out of Egypt. And
before that, I reckon that is why the Lord chose Joseph to save the Egyptians
and people of Israel during the famine. As you may recall from a previous story,
Joseph was sold to Midianite traders (who took him to Egypt to sell him to an
Egyptian officer named Potiphar) by his brothers because they despised him.
Whilst in Egypt, Joseph was an insignificant slave who was imprisoned after
being judged guilty without trial or due process when his master's wife accused
him of raping her. Although Joseph was insignificant and despised in the world,
God chose him to save the Egyptians and the people of Israel from the famine. In
essence, God chose an immigrant to save the native citizens---Egyptians---of the
country that he migrated to (Egypt). And in addition to saving the Egyptians,
Joseph saved the Israelites (his native race) from the famine as well. This is
not too different from Moses. As mentioned earlier, after the Pharaoh of Egypt
found out that he killed an Egyptian, Moses fled from Egypt to Midian. Whilst
sitting by a well, the seven daughters of the priest of Midian came and drew
water from the well to fill a trough and water their father's flocks. Then some
shepherds arrived and drove them away, but Moses came to their rescue and
watered their flock (Exodus 2:17 HCSB). In essence, Moses migrated from Egypt to
Midian because he feared for his life in Egypt. Thus, he was an immigrant in
Midian. And whilst in Midian, he had an opportunity to rescue and save natives
of Midian (the daughters of the priest of Midian). After the priest of Midian
and father of the seven daughters heard about what Moses did for his daughters,
he said to his daughters: "Why did you leave him there? Invite him to come and
eat with us." Moses accepted the invitation, and he settled there with him
(Exodus 2:20–21 NLT). In other words, in addition to Moses helping the natives
of Midian, a native of Midian helped Moses, a person who migrated from Egypt to
Midian because he feared for his life in Egypt. Moses left everything behind
when he fled Egypt. Moses had nothing when he reached the land of Midian. What
if people of Midian treated Moses differently? What if the people of Midian
decided to deport Moses back to Egypt rather than letting him to stay in Midian
because they did not believe that he had a credible fear of returning to his
home country of birth (Egypt)? If Moses was deported back to Egypt rather than
granted asylum, I reckon the people who were looking to kill Moses would have
done so. But, instead, the people of Midian granted this immigrant the
opportunity to build a new life within the safe confines of Midian, the place
that he migrated to. And in the process of time, the Lord said to Moses in
Midian, "Go back to Egypt, for all the men who were seeking your life are dead"
(Exodus 4:19 ESV). Therefore, Moses needed place to live until it would be safe
for him to go back to Egypt and rescue the people of his native race (Israelite)
from the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.

As you may have heard, there are caravans of migrants who go from one country to
another with the hopes of being granted asylum to start their lives anew. Likes
Moses and Joseph, these people go to another country because of their fear of
persecution and their safety in their home country of origin. Like Moses and
Joseph, they may leave everything behind in their home country of origin and
have nothing but hope when they migrate to the new country. And like Moses and
Joseph, these people may be viewed as insignificant. These people may be
despised in the world. Like Moses and Joseph, the people who migrate to another
country may be viewed as a killer or a rapist or some other type of criminal.
Nevertheless, like Moses and Joseph, the Lord has great plans for the migrants
in these caravans. Like Moses and Joseph, the Lord has chosen the migrants in
these caravans to rescue the native people of the country that they migrate to.
And in the process of time, in addition to helping the native people of the
country that they migrate to, the migrants shall also help those people of their
native race. However, in the mean time, they need a safe place to live until
they may safely go back to their native land. Thus, may I suggest that you do as
the people of Midian did for Moses? That you allow those who migrate to your
country to stay and build a life rather than deport them back to their home
country of residence because you do not believe that they have a credible fear
of returning there? For, if you deport them back to their home country of
residence, then those who are looking to harm them may do so. If, however, you
allow them to stay and build a life in the country they migrated to, then, like
Moses, they may help the native people of the country that they migrate to, and
then eventually go back to help the people of their country of birth.

Now, you may be wondering what they are being saved from. I reckon it is the
same thing that the Egyptians needed rescuing from when Joseph migrated to
Egypt---famine. And I reckon that it is the same thing people of Israel needed
saving from when they were slaves in Egypt---oppression. As was mentioned in
previous stories, the American Dream and its equivalent around the world has
become evermore elusive to multitudes of people. The dream of securing a
good-paying job through hard work and resilience that provides you with the
economic means to live comfortably and raise your family in a home that you
bought and have a higher standard of living than the previous generation has
become scarcer to attain. In essence, that is the famine that the people of this
world experience in this day and age. Likewise, as mentioned previously, the
people of this world feels like the system favours those who are rich and who
are considered elite. And the people of this world feel like the system has
exacerbated the inequality between the rich and the poor, the elite and those
who are not considered the elite, and those of the dominant race in the nation
and those of the minority race in the nation. In a sense, the people feel
oppressed by the system. The people of this world feel like they are being kept
down by this unjust system. And the people of this world feel like the system is
the cause for their uncomfortable life full of distresses, anxieties, and the
like.

Like the people of Israel in Egypt, the Lord has heard your cries for help.
Also, the Lord has seen the oppression with which you have been oppressed by.
The Lord is not going to stand idly by and do nothing about it. Not at all! The
Lord shall do something. The Lord shall send people like Moses and Joseph before
him, whom He has chosen, to deliver you from the oppression that you are under
and bring you to a place of abundance. Now, this does not mean the Lord plans to
send people to lead you out of your current country of residence to reside in
some other country in a similar manner to how Moses brought the people of Israel
out of Egypt to lead them to Canaan. No! What this means is that the Lord plans
to bring you out of your current place, as in situation, in life (a place of
famine and oppression and anxieties and ill comfort) and lead you to a
place/situation in life that is full of abundance. In other words, whilst your
physical location may not change, your lot in life shall change from a situation
of distress and famine to a situation of success and abundance.

> Listen, my dear brothers and sisters: Has not God chosen those who are poor in
the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom he promised
those who love him? <cite>James 2:5 NIV</cite>

You may wonder why the Lord allowed such a famine and oppression to happen in
the first place. It is so that people would turn back to the Lord. That is what
happened as a result of the children of Israel's oppression at the hands of the
Egyptians. It is what shall happen in this day and age. Before the king of Egypt
enacted those nationalist policies, the people of Israel were living comfortable
and peaceful lives in Egypt that allowed them to grow and multiply. And then,
out of a fear of losing their place as the dominant race in society, the king of
Egypt enacted nationalist policies to ensure that the minority race stayed
powerless and oppressed, thereby exacerbating inequality. Now, if the king of
Egypt did not enact such oppressive policies, then the people of Israel would
continue to be living a comfortable life in Egypt. Because the people of Israel
would still be able to build a life of comfort, they would have no reason to cry
out to the Lord for help. However, the enactment of these policies made building
a comfortable and peaceful life by themselves elusive, if not impossible. In
essence, the Lord allowed them to be poor in the eyes of the world through the
famine and oppression so that the people of Israel would become rich in faith in
the Lord.

Now, this is similar to why the Lord allowed such a famine and oppression to
happen in this day and age. For generations, it had been possible to attain the
American Dream and its equivalent around the world. For generations, It had been
possible to have a higher standard of living than the previous generations. For
generations, it had been possible to live comfortably and raise a family in a
home you bought because you were able to secure a well-paying job through your
own hard work and resilience. Then, in the process of time, policies were
adopted that made the American Dream and its equivalent around the world
evermore elusive to all except those who are the rich and the elite. If the
American Dream and its equivalent around the world was still possible to attain
by themselves, rather than elusive to those who are not considered a part of the
rich and the elite, then the people of this world would have no reason to cry
out to the Lord for help; rather, the people of this world would continue to
strive to attain the American Dream and build for themselves a comfortable life.
Therefore, the Lord let the American Dream and its equivalent around the world
to become elusive so that people would turn back to the Lord. And the Lord had
made the people of this world poor in their ability to attain the American Dream
so that the people of this world would become rich in faith in the Lord rather
than continue to put their faith in themselves and their own abilities to attain
the American Dream.

Yes, there is a reason that the Lord has allowed the things that are happening
around this world. It is so that people would turn back to the Lord. It is so
that the people of this world would put their faith in the Lord. Thus, if you
are a person whose dream has become more elusive to attain through faith in your
own abilities and resilience, may I suggest that you put your faith and reliance
in the Lord to help you go from a place of famine and oppression to a place of
abundance and comfort. Likewise, do not despise the immigrants living in the
country nor the caravan of migrants that may arrive and seek asylum. Instead, as
mentioned in a previous story, you should welcome them in your home and show
them extraordinary kindness and generosity because the Lord has great plans for
them. And those plans may include helping the native people of the country that
they migrate to as well as the people of their native race. For, as mentioned in
a previous story, when you bless them, you shall be blessed by them in return.

God bless.
