---
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/63902669-91ef2a80-c9d8-11e9-90c8-d687f2f48e8f.jpg
categories: [World]
tags: [Immigrant, Integration, Intolerance]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Like the generations of Jews targeted in Babylon, God shall deliver you from
  the heat that leaders put on you through their fiery rhetoric that inflame
  tensions and policies that set aflame your life.
---

> When Haman saw that Mordecai would not kneel down or pay him honor, he was
enraged. Yet having learned who Mordecai’s people were, he scorned the idea of
killing only Mordecai. Instead Haman looked for a way to destroy all Mordecai’s
people, the Jews, throughout the whole kingdom of Xerxes. (Esther 3:5-6 NIV)
>
Then Haman said to King Xerxes, “There is a certain people dispersed among the
peoples in all the provinces of your kingdom who keep themselves separate. Their
customs are different from those of all other people, and they do not obey the
king’s laws; it is not in the king’s best interest to tolerate them. (Esther 3:8
NIV)

There was a certain group of people---Jews---who were scattered and dispersed
among the peoples in all the provinces of the kingdom of Xerxes. The customs of
the Jews were different from all the other peoples. The Jews were different from
all the other peoples in the kingdom of Xerxes because they are not native to
that nation; instead, the Jews were immigrants in that nation. In this sense,
the Jews of that time are not unlike immigrants of today, who build
([or join existing][1]) ethnic enclaves in the country they migrate to. Thus,
Haman---a high ranking advisor in king Xerxes administration---advised the king
it was not in his best interest to tolerate them (and what makes them different)
or let them remain. In essence, the Jews, immigrants, were targeted by a member
of the administration of king Xerxes because he thought that the Jews,
immigrants, were not dropping their customs and culture in order to integrate
into the customs and culture of the natives of the nation they resided in.

The Jews were brought to the nation when Mordecai's
great-grandfather---Kish---had been carried away from Jerusalem with the
captives who had been captured with Jeconiah king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar
the king of Babylon had carried away (Esther 2:6 NKJV). As you may recall from
the previous post, this is also around the same time that Daniel and other Jews
were brought to Babylon from Jerusalem after king Nebuchadnezzar besieged it.
And similarly to how people working in king Xerxes administration showed hatred
toward Jews of Mordecai's generation, people working in king Nebuchadnezzar's
administration also showed malice toward the Jews of Daniel's generation for not
following the customs and culture of the natives of the nation they resided in.

Daniel and Kish. They were a part of one generation of Jews, immigrants, living
in Babylon during the reign of king Nebuchadnezzar. A couple of generations
later, Mordecai was born as part of a newer generation of Jews living in
Babylon, this time during the reign of a different leader, king Xerxes. And yet,
these Jews were still persecuted and hated on by natives of Babylon and viewed
differently from the natives.

This preamble, of course, is all to say that what happened to the Jews,
immigrants, during the days of Daniel, and a couple of generations later during
the days of Mordecai, is not too different from what is happening to immigrants
in this day and age in a variety of nations around the world. For example, the
people in a part of India called Jammu and Kashmir had special status that made
them different and separate from the rest of India. It also allowed them the
autonomy to make their own laws. And then, the administration of the current
leader of India decided that it is not in their best interest to continue to
tolerate these people who have the special status. Therefore, the current leader
of India [revoked those people's special status][2], under the pretense that the
special status that those people had hindered their integration with the rest of
India.

Likewise, Hong Kong is a part of China. However, it has special status---known
as [one country, two systems][3]---that gives it the autonomy to live by their
own laws, separate from the laws of mainland China. Although Hong Kong is a part
of China, [the people of Hong Kong do not see themselves as Chinese][4]; rather,
they see themselves as different and separate from the people of mainland China.
Meanwhile, in another part of China, Xinjiang, that is home to people of a
certain ethnic group, the Uygurs, who have different customs from the majority
of other people in China, are being targeted by the administration of the leader
of China because they thought it was not in their best interest to tolerate them
and their differences.

A little closer to home, the current leader of the United States of America and
certain people within its administration have targeted immigrants as well as
those whose ethnic background is deemed by the leader and its administration to
be non native to the nation. Of course, this intolerance is nothing new in the
United States of America. Rather, this intolerance spans many generations, to
when some people were brought to the United States of America four hundred years
ago in [August 1619][5]. In this sense, the United States of America is not too
different from Babylon. For, as mentioned above, Jews, immigrants, experienced
persecution in Babylon at the decree of different leaders for many different
generations.

> If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the furnace of
blazing fire; and He will deliver us out of your hand, O king. But even if He
does not, let it be known to you, O king, that we are not going to serve your
gods or worship the golden image that you have set up. (Daniel 3:17-18 NASB)

Jews of Daniel's generation could have responded to such persecution at the
hands of the leader of Babylon by living in fear, or by looking to migrate to
another nation that is more welcoming to them. But they did not; rather, they
responded by faith in their God to deliver them from the heat that was placed on
them to adopt the customs and beliefs of the natives of Babylon and forsaking
their own customs and beliefs.

Likewise, you who are being targeted by the leader of the nation that you are
in for your customs or beliefs or ethnicity could respond to such persecution by
living in fear or migrating to another nation that is more welcoming to you. But
I suggest you not; instead, like the Jews of Daniel's generation who lived in
Babylon, I suggest that you respond by putting your faith in God because He can
deliver you from the heat that the leader and its administration placed on you
through the fiery rhetoric that they spew to inflame racial tensions and
policies that they enact to set aflame the lives you built and the future you
strived to build for you and your children. (For, as mentioned in a previous
post, the Lord let the American Dream and its equivalent around the world become
elusive so that you would turn back to Him and give Him a chance to show that He
is willing and able to fight for you and save you.)

And indeed, that is what happened to the Jews of Daniel's generation. After king
Nebuchadnezzar put some Jews into the midst of a burning fiery furnace, he was
astonished to see that He sent His angel and rescued His servants who trusted in
Him. They violated the king’s command and risked their lives rather than serve
or worship any god except their own God (Daniel 3:28 HCSB). I reckon that if
you too trust in the Lord, He too shall rescue you from the tense environment
that you have been put in the midst of by the leaders of the nation that you
reside in. Just believe.

God bless you.

[1]: https://www.theringer.com/2018/1/29/16944030/new-orleans-food-diary
     "Chau Down: A New Orleans Food Diary"
[2]: https://www.cnbc.com/2019/08/05/article-370-what-is-happening-in-kashmir-india-revokes-special-status.html
     "India revokes special status for Kashmir. Here’s what it means"
[3]: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/08/world/asia/hong-kong-protests-explained.html
     "What’s Going On in Hong Kong? What To Know About the Protests"
[4]: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-48607723
     "Why are there protests in Hong Kong? All the context you need"
[5]: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/14/magazine/1619-america-slavery.html
     "The 1619 Project"
