---
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/52389587-235d7600-2a62-11e9-8e0c-981506a52a89.jpg
categories: [Life]
tags: [Asylum]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  The doing of nothing may result in the harming and killing of life while the
  doing of something may result in good and the saving of life.
---

> Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there who had a withered hand.
And they watched him, to see whether he would heal him on the sabbath, so that
they might accuse him. And he said to the man who had the withered hand, "Come
here." And he said to them, "Is it lawful on the sabbath to do good or to do
harm, to save life or to kill?" But they were silent. And he looked around at
them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart, and said to the man,
"Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. (Mark
3:1–5 RSV)

As it was mentioned in the previous message, there is a law that states that no
one is to work on the Sabbath because it was designated by God as a day of rest.
However, Jesus Himself did not observe the Sabbath; instead, He did things that
are considered work, such as teaching and healing people. For example, as
mentioned in the Scripture above, Jesus entered the synagogue on the Sabbath day
to teach the people who were there. One such person was a man with a withered
hand. Scribes and Pharisees---those considered the elites of that day and
age---were also there to see if He would do work (healing people) on that
Sabbath day, so that they may have reason to accuse Him of breaking that law. He
did. Jesus told the man with the withered hand to step forward and stretch out
his hand. When the man did as Jesus said to do, his hand was restored to
wholeness. Now, Jesus justified what He did by asking the people who were there
a rhetorical question: "Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to
save life or to kill?" In essence, Jesus was saying that the doing of nothing,
in order to strictly adhere to the law, may, in fact, result in the doing of
something: the harming and the killing of life. And because the scribes and
Pharisees subscribe to the idea of strict adherence to the law, they, and those
who try to practice the scribes and Pharisees’ interpretation of how to adhere
to the law, may incidentally be preventing themselves from fulfilling the law;
for, it is written, the whole law is fulfilled in one word: "You shall love your
neighbor as yourself" (Galatians 5:14 ESV) since love does no harm to a
neighbor. Therefore love is the fulfillment of the law (Romans 13:10 NIV).

Now, this may not be too different from what happens in this day and age. For
example, most if not all countries have laws that regulate who may enter their
borders. And sometimes people migrate to a country to seek asylum since they are
hated and persecuted and fear for their safety in their home country of
residence. When they do that, they may be put in a detention centre whilst going
through the asylum process in accordance with the laws of the country that they
chose to migrate to. Though the people of that country may just be strictly
enforcing its laws, this strict adherence to the law may result in the [harming
or killing of life][1]. And if the applications of the asylum seekers are not
granted, they may be deported back to their home country of residence where they
too may face the [harming or killing of (their) life][2]. But that ought not to
be! For this strict adherence to the law may, in actuality, restrict you from
also showing love to your neighbours who have come to the doorstep (border) of
your home (country) seeking your help.

Now, you may be wondering who your neighbour is. A certain expert in the law
also wondered such a thing. And so, he asked Jesus. Jesus responded in the form
of a parable---the Parable of the Good Samaritan. In this parable, Jesus speaks
of a certain man travelling down from Jerusalem to Jericho. On the way, he fell
among thieves who attacked him, stripped him, beat him, and then fled, leaving
him half dead on the side of the road. There were three people who came across
the certain man: a certain priest, a Levite, and a certain Samaritan. When the
certain priest came down the road and saw the certain man, he passed by the
other side. The Levite did likewise. When the certain Samaritan, on the other
hand, saw the certain man who fell among thieves, he dressed his wounds, brought
him to an inn, and took care of him. The certain priest and Levite did nothing
to help that man, even though they should have known to do something. If the
certain Samaritan did not encounter the certain man and do something to help
him, then he would have certainly died from his wounds. Thus, the certain man
only survived because the Samaritan did something when he saw him. Thus, in
broader terms, it could be said that doing nothing, even though you know that
you should do something, may result in the harming and killing of life while the
doing of the something that you know that you should do, instead of doing
nothing, may result in good and the saving of life.

As mentioned in a previous story, one’s life is not the only thing that may
experience death. Likewise, one’s life is not the only thing that could be
wounded. Any aspect of one’s life may be wounded. And any aspect of one’s life
may experience death because of their wounds. Like those who came across the
certain man who fell among thieves, you too may come across a person who has
some aspect of their life that is wounded and half dead. For example, you may
come across a person on the streets who is asking for some money since they have
a wounded financial situation. Or you may encounter friends whose relationships
are wounded or half dead. You may encounter an acquaintance who is in need of
encouragement and strengthening since their confidence was wounded. Or you may
come across a family member who is in need of some comfort because their heart
has been wounded. Yes, in your day to day life, you may encounter a multitude of
people, whom you may or may not know, with some aspect of their life wounded or
half dead. And when you do encounter such a person, you have a decision to make:
to do nothing like the certain priest and Levite, or to do something like the
certain Samaritan. If I may, may I suggest that you do something because the
doing of nothing may result in the harming or the death (not necessarily of
their life but of some aspect of their life) of that person in need of help
while the doing of something may result in good and the saving of life (or the
aspect of their life that is wounded and half dead).

Now, we are all like that certain man. The certain man who fell among thieves
was on a journey from one place to the other. In fact, the certain priest,
Levite, and certain Samaritan were also on a journey from one place to another.
And like the certain man, certain priest, Levite, and certain Samaritan, we too
are on a journey in this life of ours. And like the certain man, we have all
been felled by the thief. (The thief may represent the devil. And as is
mentioned in John 10:10, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy.)
And like the certain priest and Levite and certain Samaritan, we have all come
across people who has been felled by the thief. When we are felled by the thief,
how would you like other people to respond when they come across us? Would you
like them to ignore you and avoid you, in a similar manner to how the certain
priest and Levite ignored and avoided the certain man when they came across him?
Or would you like them to help you, address your wounds, and take care of you?
If I may, may I recommend that you respond similarly to how the Samaritan
responded when he encountered the certain man who fell among thieves. For it is
only through such a response that good and the saving of life may result. On the
other hand, following the response of the certain priest and Levite results in
death. The certain priest and Levite did not help the certain man because
helping him would have made them ceremonially unclean according to the law. And,
as mentioned earlier, this strict adherence to the law may result in the harming
and killing of life. For, their actions (avoiding the certain man) in order to
strictly adhere to the law results in their inaction (the doing of nothing to
help the certain man), which surely would have resulted in the death of the
certain man if the certain Samaritan did not eventually come across him.
Stopping and taking the time to help him would have also delayed them from where
they were going. In other words, helping him would have inconvenienced them. For
similar reasons, we too may decide not to help a person in need. We too may
decide to not stop to help a person in need because we do not want to be delayed
in arriving at our destination. And we may also decide to not help a person in
need because it is too burdensome or inconvenient to do such a thing in terms of
effort and cost among other factors. Or we may think that someone else will
eventually come along to help that person. But that ought not to be! Instead,
like the Samaritan, we should take the time out of our lives to help those in
need. Likewise, we ought not put consideration of our own lives ahead of the
consideration of the lives of those who are in need. Therefore, when you
encounter any person who is in need of some help, may I recommend for you do as
Jesus said to man who had a withered hand to do: "Stretch out your hand." I
suggest you stretch out a (helping) hand to those who are in need so that good
and the saving of life may result rather than harm and the killing of life.

This is especially true for those who believe in Jesus. For, as mentioned in
previous stories, those who have not put their faith in Jesus are subjected to
death since all have sinned and are therefore guilty according to the law of sin
and death. And so, if you decide to do nothing to share the word of God to those
who do not believe, then it shall surely result in their death. If, however, you
do something to share the word of God to those who have never believed as well
as encourage those who used to believe but have fallen by the wayside, then it
may result in good and the saving of life if they decide to believe in Jesus. As
it was mentioned, those who believe in Jesus are justified by faith. Thus, those
who believe shall be found innocent according to the law of sin and death and
therefore not pay the penalty of that law---death. Instead, they shall fulfill
the original intent that God has for each and every one of us: eternal life. As
such, it is imperative for those who do believe in Jesus to also stretch out
their hand and reach out to those who do not yet believe in Jesus so that the
saving of life may result. However, do not stretch out your hand just to fulfill
their spiritual needs by sharing the word of God. You should also fulfill their
physical needs. Therefore, in this new year, let us resolve to love your
neighbour by stretching out a (helping) hand to every person that we encounter
who is in need so that we may do good and save life.

Happy New Year and God bless.

[1]: https://www.foxnews.com/us/border-patrol-says-guatemalan-boy-8-dies-in-custody
     "Guatemalan boy, 8, dies in US Border Patrol custody"
[2]: https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2018/world/when-death-awaits-deported-asylum-seekers
     "When death awaits deported asylum seekers"
