---
categories: [Culture]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  You may have no sympathy for the people whom you view as wicked, but the Lord
  certainly does. The Lord cares about the wicked.
hero:
  -
    image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/68263533-40849c80-0014-11ea-8a43-b1a63bd70690.jpg
---

> The Lord gave this message to Jonah son of Amittai: “Get up and go to the
great city of Nineveh. Announce my judgment against it because I have seen how
wicked its people are.” But Jonah got up and went in the opposite direction to
get away from the Lord. He went down to the port of Joppa, where he found a ship
leaving for Tarshish. He bought a ticket and went on board, hoping to escape
from the Lord by sailing to Tarshish. <cite>Jonah 1:1-3 NLT</cite>

There was a great city called Nineveh; its people were wicked. The people of
Nineveh did things that the Lord did not agree with. And as mentioned in a
previous post, when such a thing happens, there may be real-world consequences.
As such, the Lord asked Jonah to go to Nineveh to forewarn those people of the
real-world consequences that they would face for their actions. For, as it was
mentioned in a message posted previously, when you cultivate a relationship with
the Lord, He may forewarn you when certain actions of yours shall lead to the
death of you or some aspect of your life. Well, the Lord may likewise forewarn
those who do not know Him. This is because the Lord cares about all, including
the wicked. Therefore, the Lord asked Jonah to forewarn the people of Nineveh
about His impending judgment against them. But Jonah did not want to go to
Nineveh to forewarn the people there about God's impending judgment against them
since he did not care about the people of Nineveh. In fact, Jonah did not want
the people of Nineveh to be spared and saved; instead, Jonah wanted to see the
people of Nineveh be punished and perish. And so, Jonah got up and fled from the
presence of the Lord. Instead of going to Nineveh, Jonah went in the opposite
direction. Jonah went down to the port of Joppa where he found a ship leaving
for Tarshish; and he bought a ticket and boarded the ship to escape from having
to go to Nineveh to forewarn the people there.

Now, the people of this world may not be too different from Jonah. Similarly to
Jonah, you may know of people whom you view as wicked---like (former) presidents
and politicians, celebrities and athletes, execs and other leaders. And
similarly to Jonah, you may not care about those people whom you view as wicked.
And like Jonah, you may not want those people to be saved; instead, you want to
see them punished for their wickedness and perish (canceled) from society. You
may have no sympathy for the people whom you view as wicked, but the Lord
certainly does.

The Lord cares about the wicked. And so, the Lord really wanted Jonah to go to
Nineveh to forewarn the people of His impending judgment against them. Thus, the
Lord sent a violent wind over the sea. The storm was so powerful that the ship
[that Jonah was on] was in danger of breaking up (Jonah 1:4 GW). The Lord would
not let Jonah flee to Tarshish. Nevertheless, the men rowed hard to get back to
dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempestuous against
them (Jonah 1:13 ESV). The sailors tried to steer their ship back to safety, but
they failed. So they picked up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea
ceased from its raging (Jonah 1:15 NKJV). Now the Lord arranged for a great fish
to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was inside the fish for three days and three nights
(Jonah 1:17 NLT). Then the Lord commanded the fish, and it vomited Jonah onto
dry land (Jonah 2:10 HCSB).

And then Jonah went to Nineveh and forewarned the people there of God's judgment
against them; and the people of Nineveh turned from their evil ways. When God
saw what they had done and how they had put a stop to their evil ways, he
changed his mind and did not carry out the destruction he had threatened (Jonah
3:10 NLT). Now, this does not happen if Jonah chooses to shun the people of
Nineveh rather than take the time and effort to go and engage with them and talk
to them. Likewise, the people of this world may not see those they deem to be
evil turn from their ways if they choose to shun and ignore them rather than
take the time and effort to go and engage with them and talk with them. Ergo,
you ought to be willing to associate with those whom you deem to be wicked and
engage with them and talk to them. This is, of course, assuming you actually
want to see them turn from their wicked ways.

But maybe the people of this world are like Jonah in that they do not really
care about those whom they deem wicked. Instead, like Jonah, maybe the people of
this world just want to see those whom they deem to be wicked be punished and
perish (canceled) from society. When the Lord decided to relent from meting out
the judgment that He had sentenced the people of Nineveh to, it displeased Jonah
exceedingly, and he became angry. So he prayed to the Lord, and said, “Ah, Lord,
was not this what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore I fled
previously to Tarshish; for I know that You are a gracious and merciful God,
slow to anger and abundant in lovingkindness, One who relents from doing harm
(Jonah 4:1-2 NKJV). In a way, Jonah is not too different from Cain from a
previous message, who became angry at the Lord because of perceived injustices.
Jonah was angry that the people of Nineveh would not be punished for their
wickedness. And Jonah was angry that the Lord showed mercy and lovingkindness to
the people of Nineveh. For, Jonah did not think that people of Nineveh deserved
mercy and compassion because the people of Nineveh did not show mercy and
lovingkindness to those affected by their wicked ways.

Like Jonah, maybe the people of this world just want to see justice to be served
to those they deem to be wicked. Therefore, maybe the people of this world are
angry because it seems like those that they deem to be wicked are not being held
accountable for their actions. And maybe the people of this world are angry that
those they deem to be wicked are seemingly getting away without paying any
consequences for their actions. Similarly to Jonah, maybe people of this world
think that those they deem to be wicked do not deserve mercy and compassion
because people of this world think that those they deem to be wicked did not
show mercy and compassion to those affected by their wicked ways. Maybe the
people of this world would prefer that those whom they deem wicked are punished
and perish (canceled) from society for their wicked actions similarly to how the
people of Sodom and Gomorrah were punished and perished because of their wicked
ways.

> The Lord said, “Abraham, I have heard that the people of Sodom and Gomorrah
are doing all kinds of evil things. Now I am going down to see for myself if
those people really are that bad. If they aren’t, I want to know about it.”
<cite>Genesis 18:20-21 CEV</cite>

There was a city called Sodom; and another city called Gomorrah. The people of
those two cities did all kinds of evil things that the Lord did not agree with.
As such, the people of Sodom and Gomorrah are not too different from the people
of the great city of Nineveh. The Lord told Abraham about His plans. The Lord
told Abraham that He was going down to see for Himself if the people of Sodom
and Gomorrah were really as bad as He had heard. If so, then the people of Sodom
and Gomorrah would face real-world consequences for their actions. In this sense,
Abraham is not too different from Jonah. For, like Abraham, the Lord told Jonah
about the real-world consequences that the people of Nineveh would face for the
wicked actions that He had seen them do. And this is because both Abraham and
Jonah had cultivated a relationship with the Lord. And as mentioned previously,
when you cultivate a relationship with the Lord, He may tell you about things
that are to come.

When the Lord told Abraham about His plans for the people of Sodom and Gomorrah,
he could have responded in a similar manner to how Jonah responded when the Lord
told him about His judgment against the people of Nineveh. Like Jonah, Abraham
could have shown no sympathy or compassion to the people of Sodom and Gomorrah.
And like Jonah, Abraham could have desired for the people of Sodom and Gomorrah
to be punished and perish for their wicked ways. Like Jonah, Abraham could have
thought that the people of Sodom and Gomorrah deserved their fate because they
must be held accountable for their actions.

But that is not how Abraham chose to respond when informed of His plans for the
people of Sodom and Gomorrah. Instead, Abraham approached him and said: “Will
you sweep away the righteous with the wicked? What if there are fifty righteous
people in the city? Will you really sweep it away and not spare the place for
the sake of the fifty righteous people in it? (Genesis 18:23-24 NIV) When
informed about the Lord's plans for the people of Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham
chose to approach the Lord rather than running away from the Lord like Jonah.
Also, Abraham tried to save the people of Sodom and Gomorrah from punishment and
perishment for their wicked deeds by reasoning with the Lord to show them mercy
and compassion. In fact, Abraham was able to reason with the Lord until He
agreed to spare the city if He found ten righteous people within it (as opposed
to the fifty righteous people that Abraham initially started at). It was just
unfortunate that there were not ten righteous people in the city of Sodom and
Gomorrah. I reckon that if Abraham negotiated the Lord down to spare the city if
there was one righteous person in it, then the Lord would have agreed to that.
And the Lord surely would have spared the people of Sodom and Gomorrah since
there was one righteous person living within that city: [Lot][1].

Lot lived in Sodom and Gomorrah. Lot lived amidst those who did evil in the eyes
of the Lord. Though the people of Sodom and Gomorrah did evil in the eyes of
the Lord, Lot did not shun or ignore them as if they had leprosy. In this sense,
Lot is similar to Jesus from the previous message who was willing to associate
with and engage with and befriend tax collectors and sinners. For, as it is
mentioned in a previous post, you cannot turn people from their wicked ways by
shunning them. Instead, you ought to be willing to associate with those whom you
deem to be wicked and engage with them and talk to them. And that is what Lot
did. For, when the people of Sodom and Gomorrah wanted to do a certain thing,
Lot went outside to meet them and shut the door behind him and said, “No, my
friends. Don’t do this wicked thing" (Genesis 19:6-7 NIV).

Of course, when you appeal to people to turn from their evil ways, it is
possible that they ignore your appeals. In fact, that is what the people of
Sodom and Gomorrah did when Lot had appealed to them to turn from their wicked
ways. They said, “Get lost! You drop in from nowhere and now you’re going to
tell us how to run our lives. We’ll treat you worse than them!” And they charged
past Lot to break down the door (Genesis 19:9 MSG). And because the people of
Sodom and Gomorrah did not heed Lot's appeals to turn from their wicked ways,
the people of Sodom and Gomorrah faced real-world consequences for their wicked
deeds. For, the Lord made burning sulfur and fire rain out of heaven on Sodom
and Gomorrah. He destroyed those cities, the whole plain, all who lived in the
cities, and whatever grew on the ground (Genesis 19:24-25 GW).

As mentioned in a previous post, it is not our place to judge other people. That
is the Lord's job; and He is just. Likewise, just because we think that the
people whom we deem to be wicked has not been held accountable nor faced any
consequences for their actions, it does not mean that we should take it into our
own hands to mete out a punishment that we feel they deserve. That job lies with
the Lord. It is His job to hold people accountable for their actions. Now,
knowing this, it is only our job to show lovingkindness to others. It is only
our job to be willing to associate with others (including those we deem to be
wicked) and engage with them and communicate with them so that they may turn
from their wicked ways. And, in this way, the Lord may relent from meting out
His judgment against them in a similar manner to how He relented from meting out
His judgment against the people of Nineveh who turned from their wicked ways,
rather than punishing them like the wicked people of Sodom and Gomorrah. But
maybe you do not care about those you deem to be wicked. And maybe you are not
interested in seeing those you deem to be wicked spared; instead, you want to
see them perish or be punished for their actions. Well, that is just a testament
of your heart (or lack thereof). The Lord cares about all and wants all to be
spared, including the wicked. Therefore, we must be willing to associate with
and engage with those we deem to be wicked so that they may turn from their
wicked ways. And when those we deem to be wicked turn from their wicked ways,
they shall stop from doing the wicked actions that affected people. And
likewise, those who did the wicked actions may try to make amends with the
people who were affected by their wicked ways. And that, it seems, is a better
outcome than punishment and perishment.

God bless.

[1]: {% link _bible/person/lot.md %}
