---
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/64930023-aca80880-d7fa-11e9-93b5-a961b2c2c8e8.png
categories: [Culture]
tags: [Instagram Life, Cancel Culture]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  God and His love for you is not fickle; it is unchanging. God and His love for
  you is not fleeting; it is unending. God and His love for you is not a
  function; it is unconditional.
---

For those who use Twitter, you may notice that some members of Twitterati
mention in their bio that retweets do not imply endorsement or agreement. I
reckon that it is the same with the Bible. For, the Bible contains stories of
people who do disagreeable things that would not be endorsed according to
today's standard. For example, [Abraham married his half-sister, Sarah][1].
Abraham's brother, [Nahor, married his niece, Milcah][2]. Milcah's brother,
[Lot, is the father of his daughters' children][3]. That all these things are in
the Bible does not necessarily imply that God endorsed or agreed with those
actions by those people. They are in the Bible because those are the things that
happened. If those things were left out of the Bible, then the Bible would be
more like one's Instagram profile: a [filtered portrait][4] of one's life
curated to only show the agreeable bits of one's life while keeping hidden the
disagreeable bits of one's life. But the Bible is not like Instagram! Rather,
the Bible is the story of God's love for us humans who are imperfect and live
messy lives full of mistakes, regrets, failures, pain, and trials and
tribulations.

Some Instagrammers and Youtubers and influencers on other social media platforms
share a curated window that shows an idealized version of their lives, or,
[contrived perfection made to get attention][5], as one former social media
influencer so eloquently described it, whilst trying to hide the bits of their
lives that would not be agreeable or endorsed by their followers. For, as it is
mentioned in a previous post, when someone decides to bring to light or accuse
another person of certain actions that they deem to be disagreeable, the
accused, without trial or due process, may be judged to be guilty and punished
in the court of public opinion by those who heard about their actions. Indeed,
this is what happened to [Youtube stars][6] who gained a following by sharing a
curated window into their life as a vegan. One day, it was brought to light that
those Youtubers did not follow a strict vegan diet; they instead supplemented
their diet by eating fish and eggs. I reckon that those Youtubers hid the fact
that they ate fish and eggs from their followers because eating such non-vegan
foods would not be endorsed by their followers. And indeed, when what those
Youtubers tried to keep hidden from their followers was brought to light, their
followers condemned them.

(Of course, social media stars are not the only public figures who only show a
curated window into their lives. Other public figures---like politicians,
reporters, athletes, and company executives---may do likewise. And the bits of
their lives that those public figures preferred to keep hidden may be brought to
light. And when that happens, the public figure may be condemned by the people
who hear about it. This scenario recently happened to one such public figure
when it was revealed that this person [painted their face a few times][7].)

But God is not like your social media followers. Unlike with your social media
followers, you do not have to hide the disagreeable bits of your life from God
lest you be judged and condemned for your disagreeable bits. For one, you cannot
hide anything from God; He knows everything about you. You may be able to hide
things from your friends or family or social media followers but you cannot hide
anything from God. Likewise, unlike your social media followers, God shall not
condemn you because of the disagreeable bits of your life nor shall He shame you
or forsake you because of the bits of life that He disagrees with. Whether or
not your social media followers continue to love and respect you is based on the
facade (filtered view of your life) that you present to them. Once that life you
present to the public is revealed to be just a facade, your social media
followers stop loving and caring about you. The love that you feel from your
social media followers can be fickle and fleeting since it can be conditional on
their acceptance of the filtered life that you present to them. One moment, you
have a multitude of adoring followers and then, when they find out about the
hidden bits of your life that they do not agree with, they turn on you. They may
go from a mob who admires you to a mob who attacks you. But God and His love for
you is not like your followers and their love for you. God and His love for you
is not fickle; He and His love for you is unchanging. God and His love for you
is not fleeting; He and His love for you is unending. God and His love for you
is not a function; He and His love for you is unconditional.

With your social media followers, you must continually prove that you are worthy
of their love and acceptance by showing that you live up to their standard. Your
followers determine whether or not you can be a member of their community. In
that sense, your followers are your masters. You are a slave to your followers.
And as their slave, your focus is to please them. But, if they find out that you
broke the rules governing acceptance into their community, then they can
[cancel][8] your membership and exclude you from their community. But God is not
like your social media followers. You do not have to earn or prove that you are
worthy of His love. You already have it. This love is illustrated in the story
of a slave, Onesimus, who ran away from his master, Philemon, and then
eventually ended up crossing paths with Apostle Paul. The slave did something
disagreeable in the eyes of his master. Such a disagreeable action was
punishable by death. (In other words, the canceling of one's life.) But Apostle
Paul implored Philemon to welcome and accept him as you would me (Philemon 1:17
AMP), no longer as a slave, but more than a slave---as a dearly loved brother
(Philemon 1:16 HCSB). Apostle Paul implored Philemon to forgive Onesimus as well
as welcome and accept him as a dearly beloved brother rather than begrudging him
and canceling his life for the disagreeable things that he did to him. Apostle
Paul urged Philemon to do this irregardless of whether or not Onesimus showed
regret or atoned for his actions. In fact, Apostle Paul told Philemon that "if
he has wronged you in any way or owes you anything, charge it to me" (Philemon
1:18 NLT) and "I will repay it" (Philemon 1:19 NLT). By telling Philemon to
charge him instead of Onesimus, Apostle Paul was telling him to not require
atonement from Onesimus before being willing to forgive and accept him back. In
other words, do not make atonement a precondition to your forgiveness and
acceptance of other people who have wronged you or done some things that you do
not endorse. In fact, God did not make us atoning for our wrongs a precondition
to His forgiveness and love and acceptance of us. Instead, Jesus paid the price
for our wrongs (sins) against God. We did not have to pay the price.

> Although I have great boldness in Christ to command you to do what is right, I
appeal to you, instead, on the basis of love. (Philemon 1:8-9 HCSB)

Apostle Paul could have commanded Philemon to do what is right; instead, he
appealed to him on the basis of love. And now, I appeal to you, on the basis of
love, to follow what Apostle Paul asked Philemon to do. Instead of begrudging
those who have wronged you, forgive them. And instead of condemning and
canceling those who say or do things that you do not agree with or endorse, love
and accept them. Shaming people is not the way to changing people. Love is the
way. Shame may cause people to feel compelled to say or do something to take the
heat off them. However, things done out of compulsion is not genuine. Therefore,
at most, shaming makes the shamers feel good about themselves by thinking the
shaming worked, and emboldens shamers to shame other people. But it does not
work. It just perpetuates a self-defeating cycle. For any action to be genuine,
it must be voluntary rather than forced. Apostle Paul understood this. That is
why he told Philemon that he wanted to get his consent before doing something,
so that his goodness would not be, in effect, by compulsion but of his own free
will (Philemon 1:14 NASB). Apostle Paul did not want Philemon to be compelled to
do good and what is right; rather, he wanted it to be done by his own free will.
In this way, the action would be a genuine and intentional choice rather than a
forced obligation. Therefore, you should not shame people into action; instead,
you should appeal to them on the basis of love.

God bless.

[1]: {% link _bible/person/sarah.md %}
[2]: {% link _bible/person/nahor-son-of-terah.md %}
[3]: {% link _bible/person/lot.md %}
[4]: https://www.scmp.com/lifestyle/health-wellness/article/2183589/are-photo-filters-harmful-how-snapchat-dysmorphia-drives
     "Are photo filters harmful? How Snapchat dysmorphia drives people to seek cosmetic surgery"
[5]: https://www.theguardian.com/media/2015/nov/03/instagram-star-essena-oneill-quits-2d-life-to-reveal-true-story-behind-images
     "Essena O'Neill quits Instagram claiming social media 'is not real life'"
[6]: https://www.thedailybeast.com/vegan-youtube-is-imploding-as-stars-like-rawvana-bonny-rebecca-and-stella-rae-change-diets
     "The Weird World of Vegan YouTube Stars Is Imploding"
[7]: https://time.com/5680759/justin-trudeau-brownface-photo/
     "Justin Trudeau Wore Brownface at 2001 ‘Arabian Nights’ Party While He Taught at a Private School"
[8]: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/28/style/is-it-canceled.html
     "Everyone is Canceled"
