---
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/52758450-58277b00-2fd6-11e9-9432-c1867c6b87b4.jpg
categories: [World]
tags: [American Dream, Drain The Swamp, Inequality]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  The American Dream is based on relying on your ability and resourcefulness to
  overcome challenges. This self-reliance is incongruous with relying upon the
  Lord.
---

In previous stories, the obstacles and difficulties that migrants experience as
they journey from their home country of residence to another country with the
hopes of being granted asylum to start their lives anew were mentioned. It was
also mentioned that these migrants may decide to undertake this perilous
journey, regardless of the obstacles and difficulties that they may encounter,
because of the dangers and persecution and insecurities that they face in their
home country of residence. You may view the migrants' choice to leave their home
country of residence as similar to the people of Israel's choice to leave Egypt
due to the hardships that they encountered, with the hopes of starting anew in a
good and large land flowing with milk and honey (Canaan). In other words, a land
of abundance.

Like the migrants of this day and age, the people of Israel faced obstacles and
difficulties along their journey to a new beginning in life. Of course, migrants
are not the only ones who feel insecure about their life and the future that
they and their children may enjoy. In fact, in this day and age, multitudes of
people feel insecure about their (and their children's) life and future because,
in this day and age, it appears to be [more elusive to achieve the American
Dream][1] of raising a family in a house that you own due to the fulfilling job
that you were able to secure through years of hard work and resilience,
resulting in a higher standard of living when compared to your parents. Of
course, this elusiveness is not limited to those who live in America. According
to [an article describing a report][2], this elusiveness is prevalent across a
multitude of developed countries. According to the article: [The report by the
Resolution Foundation][3] paints a gloomy picture for all young adults across
the developed world---apart from the Nordic countries. It highlights how incomes
are depressed, jobs scarce and home ownership is slumping for the millennial
generation compared with the baby boomers that preceded them. Because the
prospect of a secure life and future elude those residing in [countries
classified as developed][4], you may reason that such a prospect also eludes
those who live in a country [classified as developing][5]. For example, [it has
been suggested][6] that one of the factors that caused the Arab Spring was young
people's frustrations that stemmed from the indignity of being educated yet
lacking for money and employment opportunities. According to [a more recent
report][7], the prospect of a secure life and future remain elusive to young
adults in the birthplace of the Arab Spring. For, over the past eight years,
successive Tunisian governments have failed to create enough jobs for the
educated, to address pressing needs ranging from housing to health services, and
also provide for society's rising expectations. In Tunisia, more than a third of
young people between the ages of fifteen and twenty-four are unemployed. Yes,
from one end of the earth to the other, people share a sense of frustration and
insecurity over their (and their children's) life and future because of the lack
of job opportunities that provide them with the economic means to live
comfortably in a home they bought to raise their family. For, they see that the
job opportunities that are available are unstable. Nor do they provide a salary
that allows them to live comfortably; instead, people are living paycheque to
paycheque and are unable to save up money to buy their own home, let alone save
for retirement and emergencies that may arise unexpectedly. This sense of
frustration and insecurity is experienced by people across a multitude of
countries that are at various stages of development along with varying
histories, races and ethnicities, cultures, and religious beliefs. In other
words, this sense of frustration and insecurity that has become prevalent around
this world is nondiscriminatory. And in a similar manner to how the frustration
of young people fuelled the Arab Spring, resulting in the toppling of the
leaders and elites and establishment figures who are considered a part of the
problem, so too do people in other countries, fuelled by their frustrations,
desire to replace the leaders and elites and other government establishment
figures with those who promise change. Now, this perspective on what is
happening around the world is not new. Other people have also [opined][8] that:
In countries around the world---France, Brazil, Sweden, the Philippines,
Germany, and many others---voters are suddenly backing candidates that would
have been unimaginable just a decade ago. And these are not isolated events.
What you are watching is entire populations revolting against leaders who refuse
to improve their lives. In the United States, Donald Trump rode a surge of
popular discontent all the way to the White House. And in the most recent
election in Brazil, what was [unthinkable happened][9] when Bolsonaro surfed a
tsunami of popular anger and despair that swept away the entire Brazilian
political system, along with the old party leaders. He was able to do so because
of the people's growing suspicion that representative democracy is incapable of
delivering what they need.

This is reminiscent to what happened in the past. In the past, there was a man
named Samuel, who was judge (leaders were called judges in those days and ages)
over the people of Israel. As Samuel grew old, he appointed his sons to be
judges over Israel. But they were not like their father, for they were greedy
for money. They accepted bribes and perverted justice (1 Samuel 8:1,3 NLT). The
sons of Samuel were corrupt. They used their office and position of power for
personal gain. They perverted justice by accepting bribes in order to enrich
themselves. In other words, those who are able to give them money would be
favoured over those who are not able to give them money. And those who could
give them money could receive special treatment and benefits that would not be
available to those who are not able to give them money. In essence, the sons of
Samuel operated a pay for play system. Now, this is not too different from the
leaders of this day and age who are in government. The leaders of this day and
age may also use the office that they have been elected to and position of power
for personal gain. And these leaders may pervert justice by accepting money from
people (or corporations or foreign state actors). While the leaders in
government of this day and age might not receive the money directly, they may
receive it indirectly in the form of campaign contributions and donations to
non-profits and other institutions connected to those leaders. In return for
giving them money, they may receive favours that are not available to those who
do not give money to the leaders. The favours may include special access to
those in power; preferential treatment, such as the enactment of legislation
that benefits their company or industry; and other benefits, such as the
awarding of no-bid government contracts. In a sense, it is as if the leaders in
government only care about themselves (and their family) as well as those who
can afford to give them money, while not caring about those who do not give the
leaders any money. But that ought not to be! For, as it was mentioned in the
previous story, you should show extraordinary kindness and generosity to those
with needs without expecting anything in return. Whether or not you show
extraordinary kindness and generosity to others ought not be dependent on their
ability to give you something in return. Instead, you ought to be equally kind
and generous to all, irregardless of their ability to return the favour.

This is the injustice that the people of this world sees in this day and age.
This is also the injustice that people in that day and age saw as well.
Therefore, all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at
Ramah, and said to him, "You are old and your sons do not follow in your ways;
appoint for us, then, a king to govern us, like other nations" (1 Samuel 8:4â€“5
NRSV). All the elders of Israel desired change. They wanted to drain the swamp
of corruption that favours the rich and elites by appointing an outsider to be
their leader in government. Now, this is not too different from what has been
happening in this day and age. Similarly to the elders of Israel, the people in
this day and age desire for change. And like the elders of Israel, the people in
this day and age want to drain the swamp of corruption that favours the rich and
elite. And similarly to the elders of Israel, the people of this day and age
think that electing outsiders to be their leader shall accomplish that goal.
Now, during the election process, the general populace may get to know these
outsiders who are running to be their leader in terms of their character,
personality, beliefs, and platform. During this discovery process, the general
public may have been forewarned about what would happen if these outsiders were
elected as their leader. The general public were forewarned that the election of
these outsiders would result in the draining of civil liberties rather than the
draining of the swamp. Yet, irregardless of these warnings, many of these
outsiders were elected leader. Now, this is not too different from what happened
when the elders of Israel wanted an outsider to become leader over the people of
Israel. The elders of Israel were forewarned about what would happen if an
outsider were to be their leader. For, the Lord told Samuel to solemnly forewarn
them, and show them the behaviour of the king who will reign over them (1 Samuel
8:9 NKJV). And if you read the next couple of verses in this Biblical story,
then you shall read that Samuel had forewarned them that their civil liberties
would be curtailed. The people refused to listen to Samuel. "No!" they said. "We
want a king over us. Then we will be like all the other nations, with a king to
lead us and to go out before us and fight our battles" (1 Samuel 8:19â€“20 NIV).
People of Israel, during the time when Samuel's sons were leader, decided to
dismiss the forewarnings that they heard. The people of Israel still wanted an
outsider to become their king. Therefore...

> Samuel called the people to assemble before God at Mizpah. He addressed the
children of Israel, "This is God's personal message to you:
>
"I brought Israel up out of Egypt. I delivered you from Egyptian
oppression---yes, from all the bullying governments that made your life
miserable. And now you want nothing to do with your God, the very God who has a
history of getting you out of troubles of all sorts.
>
"And now you say, 'No! We want a king; give us a king!'
>
"Well, if that's what you want, that's what you'll get! Present yourselves
formally before God, ranked in tribes and families." (1 Samuel 10:17â€“19 MSG)

The people of Israel think that their leaders do not fight for them. Instead,
the people of Israel think that the leaders only fight for special interest
groups and elites who are able to give them money. Therefore, the people of
Israel wanted a leader to fight their battles and save them even though they
have a God who has proven, time and again, that He is able to do likewise. For
the same reason the general populace of a multitude of countries decided to
elect outsiders to become their leader. For, the citizens of those countries
think that their leaders do not fight for them. Instead, the citizens of those
countries think that their leaders only fight for the special interest groups
and elites who give them money. And so, they want a leader who shall fight for
them and save them from the hardships that they face even though there is
already a God who is able to fight for them and save them from all the trials
and tribulations and adversities and miseries and pains and sufferings that they
may face in their life. This may not too different from those who choose to
migrate to another country. Those who migrate to another country also want to be
saved from all the hardships that they face in their native country of
residence. The only difference is the strategy that was employed. One group
hoped that migrating to another place would offer them salvation from the
hardships they encounter while the other group hoped that the election of an
outsider to be their leader would offer them salvation from the hardships that
they encounter. But that ought not to be! All of us should turn to the Lord to
fight our battles and save us rather than fight our own battles. Now, a battle
may refer to things that we are struggling with. For example, as mentioned
above, we may be battling a precarious financial situation. And this precarious
financial situation of ours may be due to  another battle: precarious job
opportunities. We might need saving from a sickness that we are battling. Or we
might need saving from our struggle with depression. We might need saving from
loneliness. Or we might need saving from bullies at school. Whatever the battle
that we may be facing, we have a choice to make: to turn to the Lord to fight
our battles and save us, or to try and fight our battles ourselves. I suggest
for you to turn to the Lord to fight your battles for you. And you do that by
seeking and following His battle plan. And when you do that, you shall overcome
every challenge that you are struggling with.

The people of Israel in the days of Samuel decided not to turn to the Lord God
to fight their battles. Instead, the people of Israel decided to follow their
own plans to overcome the challenges they are battling. This is not too
different from the people of this day and age. For, attaining the American Dream
and its equivalent around the world is predicated on the reliance of your own
capabilities and resourcefulness to overcome any obstacles and difficulties.
However, this self-reliance is incongruous with relying upon the Lord to fight
your battles for you by seeking and following His battle plan. For, striving to
attain the American Dream and its equivalent around the world has resulted in a
populace who have rejected the Lord and His ability to help you and a populace
that have turned away from relying on the Lord. Instead, it resulted in people
whose faith is in themselves and whose reliance is on their own abilities to
overcome any obstacles. However, the Lord desires for all of us to turn our
hearts back toward Him. And the Lord desires for each and every one of us to
have faith in Him and trust in Him and rely on Him. Therefore, the Lord has
allowed the American Dream and its equivalent across the globe to become so
elusive in order for each and every one of us to turn our heart back to Him. The
Lord has allowed the American Dream and its equivalent across the globe to
become elusive so that the people of this world would turn to Him to fight their
battles and save them from the struggle that they experience. Therefore, do not
fight your own battles. Instead, turn your heart back to the Lord and let Him
fight your battles for you. When you do that, you shall overcome every challenge
that you are struggling with.

God bless.

[1]: https://wapo.st/14Tcih6
     "More people express uncertainty in chance to achieve the American Dream"
[2]: https://www.theguardian.com/money/2018/feb/19/uk-millennials-second-worst-hit-financially-in-developed-world-says-study
     "UK millennials second worst-hit financially in developed world, says study"
[3]: https://www.resolutionfoundation.org/publications/cross-countries-international-comparisons-of-intergenerational-trends
     "Cross countries: international comparisons of intergenerational trends"
[4]: https://www.un.org/development/desa/dpad/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/publication/WESP2018_Full_Web-1.pdf#page=160
     "World Economic Situation and Prospects 2018"
[5]: https://www.un.org/development/desa/dpad/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/publication/WESP2018_Full_Web-1.pdf#page=161
     "World Economic Situation and Prospects 2018"
[6]: https://www.brookings.edu/opinions/old-definitions-fail-to-capture-arab-spring-complexities
     "Old Definitions Fail to Capture Arab Spring Complexities"
[7]: https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/is-revolutionary-fervor-afire-again-in-tunisia
     "Is Revolutionary Fervor Afireâ€”Againâ€”in Tunisia?"
[8]: https://fxn.ws/2F3GYFV
     "Tucker Carlson: Mitt Romney supports the status quo. But for everyone else, it's infuriating"
[9]: https://wapo.st/2yN5zdB
     "How the unthinkable happened in Brazil"
