---
title: The Battle is the Lord's
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/53145591-bfad6f80-356e-11e9-813e-fda05dcf15a6.jpg
categories: [Life]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  The Lord let the American Dream become elusive so that you would turn back to
  Him and give Him a chance to show that He is willing and able to fight for and
  save you.
---

As it was mentioned in the previous story, the people of Israel wanted change.
The people of Israel wanted a leader who would fight for them and save them even
though they already had a God who has proven, time and again, that He is able to
fight their battles and save them from their struggles. The people of Israel
chose Saul as the man who would lead them and fight their battles and save them.
So how did that go for the people of Israel? To find out, let us look at one of
the battles that the people of Israel experienced and were in need of saving
from.

During the days of the reign of Saul, the people of Israel were at war with the
Philistines. One day, the Philistines gathered their armies to battle the people
of Israel. In response to this, Saul gathered together his army. The Philistines
stood on a mountain on one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other
side, with a valley between them (1 Samuel 17:3 NKJV). One of the persons who
was in the Philistine army was a man named Goliath, whose height was six cubits
and a span, or over nine feet in today's unit of measure. In other words,
Goliath was a giant. Every day, once in the morning and again in the evening,
Goliath would taunt the people of Israel. He would shout at them, "Choose a man
for yourselves, and let him come down to me. If he is able to fight with me and
kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill
him, then you shall be our servants and serve us" (1 Samuel 17:8–9 NKJV).

This is not too different from the people of this world in this day and age.
People in this day and age also wanted a leader who would fight for and save
them even though there already is a God who is able to fight their battles and
save them from their struggles. Therefore, in a multitude of countries, the
citizens of those countries elected an outsider to be their leader to fight for
and save them. Like the people of Israel, you may be in a battle. As mentioned
in the previous story, you may be battling a precarious financial situation. And
this precarious financial situation may be due to another battle: precarious job
opportunities. You may need saving from a sickness. And you may need saving from
your struggles with depression. You may need saving from loneliness. Or you may
need saving from bullies at school. It may seem like you are battling a whole
army of challenges. And like Goliath, the struggles that you are battling may
taunt you every day. They may taunt you in the mornings when you wake up, and
they may taunt you in the evenings as you lay in bed. Similarly to Goliath and
the Philistine army, the things that you are struggling with may be a barrier to
moving forward in your life. For, like Goliath, the thing that you are
struggling with may seem too big for you to overcome.

This is not too different from the people of Israel. For, when Saul and all
Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly
afraid (1 Samuel 17:11 NKJV). People of Israel were dismayed and greatly afraid
of the challenge that was before them. It was a challenge that was too big for
them to overcome. This challenge was like a barrier preventing them from moving
forward in their lives. For such a scenario, the people of Israel desired a new
leader. The people of Israel desired a new leader who would fight their battles
and save them. So here is a perfect opportunity for Saul, their new leader, to
rise up to the challenge and fight Goliath and save the people of Israel. That
is the raison d'etre for Saul's ascension as leader of the people of Israel. So
what did Saul do with this challenge that the people of Israel were facing? Did
Saul fight for them? Did Saul save them? No, he did not. Saul did not fight for
them nor did he save them from the challenges before them. Instead, like the
people of Israel, he was dismayed and greatly afraid when he heard the words of
Goliath, the Philistine that was before them.

Likewise, people of this world elected outsiders to become their leader to fight
for and save them from the challenges that are before them by draining the swamp
of corruption and changing the system that favours the rich and elite. For, as
it was mentioned in the previous story, people think that this system of
corruption that fosters such favouritism resulted in the American Dream and its
equivalent around the world to become evermore elusive and impossible to attain.
Likewise, people think that the American Dream and its equivalent around the
world has become evermore elusive to achieve because the system has reduced the
availability of well-paying jobs, resulting in their current struggle to live
comfortably and raise a family in a home that they own. In other words, the
current system of inequality is the Goliath that the people of this world face
in this day and age. People of this world think that if they are able to slay
the Goliath that is the current system of corruption and inequality, then the
rest of their struggles may be subdued in a similar manner to how the
Philistines would become servants to the people of Israel if they are able to
prevail against Goliath and kill him. Nevertheless, like Saul, the leader that
they elected shall not save them from the challenges that they face. Instead,
like Saul, the leaders shall not be able to overcome the Goliath that they were
elected to fight because the system is too big for it to be overcome by one
person alone.

As it was mentioned in the previous story, instead of turning to the leader that
you elected to fight your battles and save you from the challenges that you are
facing, you should turn to the Lord to fight your battles and save you from the
challenges that you face. That is what a young man named David did. He was the
youngest of eight sons that a person named Jesse had. One day Jesse said to
David, "Take this basket of roasted grain and these ten loaves of bread, and
carry them quickly to your brothers. And give these ten cuts of cheese to their
captain. See how your brothers are getting along, and bring back a report on how
they are doing" (1 Samuel 17:17–18 NLT). And so that is what David did. As he
was talking with them, Goliath, the Philistine champion from Gath, came out from
the Philistine ranks. Then David heard him shout his usual taunt to the army of
Israel (1 Samuel 17:23 NLT). Whilst at the camp speaking to his brothers, David
encountered the Goliath that the army of Israel faced. Whilst at the camp, David
was taunted by the same challenge that the army of Israel was taunted by. And as
mentioned previously, all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from
him and were much afraid (1 Samuel 17:24 ESV). On the other hand, when David saw
the challenge and heard its taunts, he did not flee nor was he afraid. Instead,
David said to Saul, "Don't let anyone be discouraged by him; your servant will
go and fight this Philistine!" (1 Samuel 17:32 HCSB) David's confidence to
overcome the challenge that is before him is not based on his own ability. It
is, instead, based on his faith that the Lord is able to fight for him and save
him from the challenges that he faces. For, when confronted by the Goliath
challenge that was right in front of him, David said to the Philistine, "You
come to me with a sword, a spear, and a javelin, but I come to you in the name
of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have taunted.
This day the Lord will hand you over to me, and I will strike you down and cut
off your head. And I will give the corpses of the army of the Philistines this
day to the birds of the sky and the wild beasts of the earth, so that all the
earth may know that there is a God in Israel, and that this entire assembly may
know that the Lord does not save with the sword or with the spear; for the
battle is the Lord's and He will hand you over to us" (1 Samuel 17:45–47 AMP).
David's confidence to overcome the challenge that is before him is based on his
faith that the Lord shall hand the challenge over to him because the battle is
the Lord's, therefore it is the Lord who fights for him and saves him. And when
the Lord defeats the Goliath that was before him, then the challenge that was
before him shall be no more. Also, the other challenges (rest of the Philistine
army) that accumulated from of the primary challenge (Goliath) shall also be
overcome through faith in the Lord.

This faith that David has in the Lord to fight the battles that he faces and
save him is not unfounded; it is based on his prior experiences. For, as David
said to Saul before facing the Goliath challenge that was in front of him, "The
Lord who rescued me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear will rescue
me from the hand of this Philistine" (1 Samuel 17:37 HCSB). David had prior
experience with the Lord saving him when he encountered challenges (bears and
lions) in his life. Thus, when another challenge (Goliath) arose in his life, he
was confident that the Lord would fight for him and save him, similarly to how
the Lord fought for him and saved him when he encountered prior challenges.

As mentioned in the previous story, there is a reason that the Lord allowed the
American Dream and its equivalent around the world to become more elusive and
impossible to achieve. It is not so that the people of this world would turn to
the leaders that they elected to fight for them and save them. No! It is so the
people of this world would turn back to the Lord. It is to give the people of
this world an opportunity to put their faith in the Lord and trust that He is
able to fight for and save them. It is to give the people of this world a chance
to experience the Lord fighting for and saving them from a challenge that they
encounter, similarly to how David experienced the Lord fighting for and saving
him from a challenge that he encountered. For, when the people of this world
experiences the Lord fighting for and saving them from one challenge, then they
may learn to trust in the Lord to fight subsequent battles and save them from
subsequent challenges since they have prior experience in a similar manner to
how David trusted the Lord to fight for him and save him when he encountered a
Goliath challenge since he had prior experience with the Lord fighting for him
and saving him from other challenges (the bear and the lion). Besides helping
you to overcome the challenges that you face, there is another reason that the
Lord wants you to experience Him fighting for you and saving you. It is, as
David said to Goliath, so that all the earth may know that there is a God in
Israel who saves. For, if others know that there is a God who saves because they
heard about your experience with the Lord saving you from the challenges that
you encounter, then they may also give the Lord an opportunity to save them from
any challenges that they may encounter.

Thus, if you are struggling with a challenge that you are facing, may I suggest
that you give the Lord an opportunity to fight for you and save you. For, when
you do that, you shall experience the Lord saving you from the challenge that
you face. And when He does that, you shall realize that there is a God who is
able and willing to save. And you shall realize that there is a God whom you can
turn to fight for and save you whenever you encounter a challenge. All you have
to do is give the Lord one chance, one opportunity. Will you give it to Him? I
suggest you do.

God bless.
