---
categories: [World]
tags: [Immigrant Integration]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Don't view immigrants as a drain on society. Rather, view them like how Daniel
  was viewed: as someone with the potential to integrate and become positive
  contributors in their new habitat.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/62260565-6597bc80-b3e0-11e9-883c-1763e4fbe297.jpg
---

> Now in the second year of Nebuchadnezzar’s reign, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams;
and his spirit was so troubled that his sleep left him. Then the king gave the
command to call the magicians, the astrologers, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans
to tell the king his dreams. So they came and stood before the king. And the
king said to them, “I have had a dream, and my spirit is anxious to know the
dream.”
>
Then the Chaldeans spoke to the king in Aramaic, “O king, live forever! Tell
your servants the dream, and we will give the interpretation.”
>
The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, “My decision is firm: if you do not
make known the dream to me, and its interpretation, you shall be cut in pieces,
and your houses shall be made an ash heap. However, if you tell the dream and
its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts, rewards, and great honor.
Therefore tell me the dream and its interpretation.” <cite>Daniel 2:1-6
NKJV</cite>

Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, had dreams. Dreams that he did not
understand the meaning of. I reckon that this is because he did not have a
relationship with the Lord God. As mentioned in a previous post, messages
that are encrypted with a well-designed encryption scheme may not be deciphered
without the decryption key. That is why those without the decryption key may see
and hear the message, however what they see is in an encrypted form so they do
not understand the message; rather it is without meaning to them. Only those
with the decryption key may understand the message. And the decryption key is
held by the One who encrypted the message. In this case, Jesus. Because
Nebuchadnezzar did not have a relationship with the Lord God, he did not have
the decryption key to decipher his dream. Thus, Nebuchadnezzar called upon his
advisers---magicians, astrologers, sorcerers, and Chaldeans---in hopes that they
would be able to tell him his dream and give him the interpretation. However,
they too were not able to. I reckon that this is because they too did not have a
relationship with the Lord God. As was mentioned in a previous post, when you
cultivate a relationship with the Lord God, He may tell you what is to come and
forewarn you when something will result in the death of you or some aspect in
your life. Such a forewarning may have been beneficial to them so that they may
have avoided being cut into pieces (death of their health) as well as having
their houses made an ash heap (destruction of their homes) as a consequence of
not being able to tell Nebuchadnezzar his dream and give him the interpretation.

> Daniel went at once to see the king and requested more time to tell the king
what the dream meant. Then Daniel went home and told his friends Hananiah,
Mishael, and Azariah what had happened. He urged them to ask the God of heaven
to show them his mercy by telling them the secret, so they would not be executed
along with the other wise men of Babylon. That night the secret was revealed to
Daniel in a vision. Then Daniel praised the God of heaven. <cite>Daniel 2:16-19
NLT</cite>
>
Then Daniel went in to see Arioch, whom the king had ordered to execute the wise
men of Babylon. Daniel said to him, “Don’t kill the wise men. Take me to the
king, and I will tell him the meaning of his dream.” Arioch quickly took Daniel
to the king and said, “I have found one of the captives from Judah who will tell
the king the meaning of his dream!” <cite>Daniel 2:24-25 NLT</cite>

Nebuchadnezzar could not interpret the dream; nor could the magicians,
astrologers, sorcerers, and Chaldeans. And because of this, Nebuchadnezzar
decreed that all of the wise men be executed. And so, Arioch, the commander of
the king's guard, went forth to carry out Nebuchadnezzar's command. When one of
the wise men---Daniel---found out about the king's decree, he went to see the
king and requested some time to tell the king his dream and what it meant. That
night, the Lord God revealed the secret to Daniel in a vision. I reckon that
this is because Daniel had cultivated a relationship with the Lord God, unlike
Nebuchadnezzar and the magicians, astrologers, sorcerers, and Chaldeans.

Daniel. Daniel is not a native of Babylon; rather, he was originally from
Jerusalem. He was brought to Babylon after Nebuchadnezzar came to Jerusalem and
besieged it. He was brought to Babylon from Jerusalem because he was deemed to
have the potential to serve in the king's palace, given a couple of years of
training in the language and literature of the Babylonians. And that is what he
did. Daniel served in the king's palace for a multitude of years. In essence,
Daniel, an immigrant, became a net positive contributor in the new country that
he found himself in rather than being a drain in his new country of residence.
Daniel is a testament to how investing in helping newcomers integrate in their
new country of residence can, over the long run, help them become a net positive
contributor to the country that welcomed them.

Daniel the immigrant became a net positive contributor to his new country of
residence, Babylon, by being able to do something that the natives of Babylon
could not: tell the king his dreams and give him the interpretation. Daniel the
immigrant had skills in an area that the natives of Babylon did not. In essence,
there was a skills gap in the nation of Babylon. Daniel did not steal a job from
a native of Babylon because the natives did not have the expertise to fill that
job; instead, Daniel the immigrant filled a role that could not be filled by the
natives of Babylon. Therefore, Daniel the immigrant added on whilst not taking
anything away from other elements of the nation of Babylon.

In this day and age, some people view immigrants as a drain on the society that
they moved to. But that should not be! Instead, I reckon that immigrants
should be viewed similarly to how Daniel was viewed---someone with the potential
to integrate and become a net positive contributor in their new habitat over the
long run. Daniel was not viewed as an invasive species that overruns and chokes
out the native population in the habitat that they were brought into. No!
Instead, Daniel was viewed as someone who was worth investing the time and
resources needed to help him successfully integrate into society because he had
the potential to be a net positive contributor to society, thus allowing you to
recoup your initial investment over the long run. Thus, you should see
immigrants in the same way that Nebuchadnezzar saw Daniel.

As for those who find themselves residing in a new country: you may not
understand why you find yourself residing in a new country but just believe that
the Lord God has great plans for you there. And those plans may including rising
up to become adviser to the leaders of the new country that you reside in, just
like Daniel. Thus, just trust in the Lord God whilst navigating your way through
this new country that you find yourself in.

God bless.
