---
categories: [World]
tags: [Prophecy, Reap, Spirit, Souls, Vouch]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  You should vouch for the men and women of God whom you view as credible and
  suggest others to go and see them so that they may have profound and
  life-changing experiences and encounters with them.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/80776824-42e23200-8b31-11ea-86fe-8de7609348c7.jpg
---

> The woman left her water jar beside the well and ran back to the village,
telling everyone, “Come and see a man who told me everything I ever did! Could
he possibly be the Messiah?” <cite>John 4:28-29 NLT</cite>
>
The servant said to him, “Look here, in this city there is a man of God, and the
man is held in honor; everything that he says comes true. Now let us go there;
perhaps he can advise us about our journey [and tell us where we should go].”
<cite>1 Samuel 9:6 AMP</cite>

The woman told everyone in her village to come see a man who told her everything
she ever did. For, while speaking with the man, she mentioned that she doesn't
have a husband. To which, Jesus said to her, “You have correctly said, ‘I do not
have a husband’; for you have had five husbands, and the man you are now living
with is not your husband. You have said this truthfully.” So the woman said to
Him, “Sir, I see that You are a prophet" (John 4:17-19 AMP). They had just met
but Jesus knew these details about her. Astounded by the conversation that they
had, the woman left her water jar beside the well, ran back to the village, and
told everyone to come see a man---Jesus---whom they did not personally know.
Now, if you recall, this isn't that different from the story of Saul's search
for his father's missing donkeys that was mentioned in the previous message. In
the previous post, Saul's servant told him to go see a man of God---Samuel the
Prophet---whom he did not personally know. Then Saul said to his servant, “Your
suggestion is a good one. Come, let us go.” And they went to the town where the
man of God was (1 Samuel 9:10 LEB). Whilst conversing, Samuel the Prophet told
Saul: As for the donkeys you lost three days ago, do not worry about them; they
have been found (1 Samuel 9:20 NIV). They had just met but Samuel the Prophet
knew those details about his life. Saul had not met Samuel the Prophet before.
We know this because Saul approached Samuel inside the gateway and said, “Please
tell me where the seer’s house is” (1 Samuel 9:18 GW). Saul did not know that he
was speaking to the seer---Samuel the Prophet---whom he was looking for because
they had never met before! Now, Saul agreed to go and see this man of God
because his servant had vouched for him. The servant told Saul the man of God is
highly respected by all; and he is credible because everything he says *comes*
true. This is not too different from what the woman told people in her village.
The woman vouched for the man of God whom she just met at the well. The woman
told the people of her village that everything Jesus said to me *is* true. Even
though the woman just met Jesus at the well, she testified that He told her all
that she ever did. So the people came streaming from the village to see him
(John 4:30 NLT).

Now, you might know men and women of God---such as prophets---whom you view as
being highly respected and credible. You may view the man or woman of God as
honorable and credible because that is the reputation that they have built. Or
you may hold those views of the man or woman of God because of your (or someone
you trust's) personal experiences and encounters with them; and during your
personal encounters with the man or woman of God, they told you things from your
past and/or told you things that came to pass in the future.

As such, like Saul's servant and the woman at the well, you should vouch for the
men and women of God whom you know and see as credible. Others might not know
these men and women of God. But you do, through your personal experiences and
encounters with them. As such, you may testify to the credibility of these men
and women of God and share your personal experiences with them to those who do
not know them. If you do not vouch for these men and women of God, then others
may not go to see them. And if they do not go to see them, they may not get the
opportunity to experience what you experienced when you encountered the man or
woman of God. And what you experienced may have been profound and life-changing.
Thus, like Saul's servant and the woman at the well, you should vouch for the
men and women of God whom you view as credible and recommend others to go and
see them so that they too may have profound and life-changing experiences and
encounters with them; and be blessed by them.

That is what happened to Saul, as mentioned in the previous post. But that does
not happen if Saul's servant does not vouch for the man of God and suggest that
he go and see him. Likewise, the people of the village would not have profound
experience if the woman at the well did not vouch for Jesus and recommend that
they go and see him. And that is what happened. Many of the Samaritans from that
town believed in him because of the woman’s testimony, “He told me everything I
ever did.” So when the Samaritans came to him, they urged him to stay with them,
and he stayed two days. And because of his words many more became believers.
They said to the woman, “We no longer believe just because of what you said; now
we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this man really is the Savior of
the world” (John 4:39-42 NIV). Many believed because of the woman's testimony.
And many more believed after hearing directly from Him. Yes, as seen in these
stories, there are multitude of ways for a person to come to believe in Him. A
person may come to believe in Jesus after hearing your testimony. A person may
also come to believe in Him through men and women of God whom you recommend that
they go see. A person may come to believe in Jesus after hearing directly from
Him. Or, as Jesus said to someone: “Unless you people see signs and wonders, you
will by no means believe” (John 4:48 NKJV). Yes, not everyone in the village
believed in Jesus after hearing the woman's testimony; they only believed in Him
after they themselves heard Him directly. Likewise, not everyone shall believe
in Jesus after hearing your testimony. Instead, they may need to hear directly
from Jesus or from men and women of God before believing in Him. And some people
will only believe in Jesus after seeing signs and wonders. (Of course, Jesus
desires everyone to believe in Him and be saved, so you should use every tool in
your toolbox to reach each person. Thus, if your testimony will convince them
to believe in Him, then you should share your testimony with them. Or, if asking
a person to go and hear from a man or woman of God will convince a person to
believe in Jesus, then you should do that. If signs and wonders will convince a
person to believe in Jesus, then you should do that. And the like.)

As mentioned in the previous post, Samuel the Prophet told Saul all of the signs
that he would see if he took a particular route back to his father's house. He
told Saul that he would meet two people by Rachel's tomb at Zelzah who will tell
you that the donkey's that you have been looking for have been found. He then
told Saul that he would meet three men by the big oak tree in Tabor who would
greet him and give him two loaves of bread. And then he told Saul that he would
meet a group of prophets and worshippers at Gibeah, where the Spirit of the Lord
would come upon him; and he shall prophesy with them and be changed into a new
person. Then it happened. As Saul turned and started to leave, God gave him a
new heart, and all Samuel’s *signs* were fulfilled that day (1 Samuel 10:9 NLT).
Yes, Saul went to see and hear from a man of God; and he witnessed signs come to
pass, which had a profound effect on his life.

Likewise, men and women of God shall witness signs and wonders come to pass when
they follow the Lord's direction. Before Jesus came to Samaria, He was in Judea.
He left Judea and departed again to Galilee. But He needed to go through Samaria
(John 4:3-4 NKJV). Now, to be clear: Jesus did not *have to* go through Samaria
to go back to Galilee. At the time, there were more than one route from Judea to
Galilee. He could have taken a different route back to Galilee from Judea. But
it says He *needed to* go through Samaria because the Holy Spirit instructed Him
to take a specific route---Judea to Galilee via Samaria---for a reason: so the
people of that city would come to believe in Him and be saved. The Lord knew the
people of that city were ready and receptive to hearing the Good News of Jesus
Christ. So the Lord sent Jesus there to share the Gospel with them. And as it
was mentioned earlier, many of the Samaritans of that city decided to believe in
Him because of the testimony of the woman and the word that He shared with them.
However, this does not happen if Jesus takes a different route back to Galilee
from Judea. This only happened because Jesus chose to follow the instructions of
the Lord by going through Samaria whilst on the way back to Galilee from Judea.

> Do you think the work of harvesting will not begin until the summer ends four
months from now? Look around you! Vast fields of human souls are ripening all
around us, and are ready now for reaping. <cite>John 4:35 TLB</cite>

Men and women of God: Look all around you. The field of human souls is ready for
reaping. You do not have to wait for some future time or season or event before
reaping. The field is ready now. Some are waiting expectantly for a so-called
Third Pentecost where they envision a great outpouring of His Spirit and reaping
of souls. You do not have to wait for such a time. No! The field is ready now.
You can witness His Spirit being poured out on people now. What did Jesus say to
the woman at the well (besides the number of husbands that she's had)? Jesus
said to her, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, ‘Give
Me a drink,’ you would have asked Him, and He would have given you living
water” (John 4:10 NASB). For, "whoever drinks the water I give them will never
thirst. Indeed, the water I give them will become in them a spring of water
welling up to eternal life” (John 4:14 NIV). He is talking about the Spirit of
God. That is the living water that He mentions. And as He said to her, all you
have to do is ask Him (by faith) and He will give you living water---the Spirit
of God. Now, He also spoke of this living water to others. To others, He said:
Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said, rivers of living water will flow
from within them. By this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him
were later to receive.” (John 7:38-39 NIV). The Spirit of God shall come upon
whoever believes in Him. So you do not have to wait until some future time or
season or event before seeing the Spirit of God come upon people. Instead, you
need to go out into the field and reap. For the field is ready for reaping. And
you do that by testifying to others, similarly to what the woman at the well
did; you do that by bringing people to Jesus; and you do that by suggesting
people go see men and women of God, similarly to what Saul's servant did. And
the like. When you do that, you shall witness people believe in Him; and
consequently, you shall witness the Spirit of God come upon them. Just believe.

God bless.
