---
categories: [World]
tags: [Spirit, Unhesitant Faith, Vouch]
alternateTitle: do what the Lord tells you to do
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  For, when you do your part by obediently following and acting upon His word,
  the Lord will do His part to honor your faith so that His word comes to pass
  and bears fruit.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/81978253-3f52ae80-95f9-11ea-92ab-8506622ca7c5.jpg
---

> A man named Cornelius lived in the city of Caesarea. He was a Roman army
officer in the Italian Regiment. One day, about three in the afternoon, he had a
vision. He clearly saw an angel from God come to him and say, “Cornelius! Send
messengers now to the city of Joppa, and summon a man whose name is Simon Peter.
He is a guest of Simon, a leatherworker, whose house is by the sea.”
<cite>Acts 10:1,3,5,6 GW</cite>

There was a man named Cornelius. God dispatched an angel to tell him to send
people to the city of Joppa to summon a man named Simon Peter. The angel of God
gave Cornelius specific instructions to follow. As mentioned in a
[previous post][1], the Lord can give you specific instructions to follow. He
may give you these instructions directly as you pray to Him. Or, He may give you
these directions through men and women of God (such as prophets), as was the
case in that previous post. Or, as is the case in this story, He may send angels
to deliver His instructions. And as suggested in that previous post, you should
follow the instructions that the Lord gives you (whether it be directly through
your prayer time with Him or indirectly through prophets) lest you miss the
connections that the Lord has planned for you. Cornelius decided to listen to
and follow the instructions that the angel of God gave to him. For, when the
angel who spoke to him had departed, Cornelius called two of his household
servants and a devout soldier from among those who waited on him continually. So
when he had explained all these things to them, he sent them to Joppa (Acts
10:7-8 NKJV).

When you follow the instructions of the Lord, He shall make sure that what He
says comes true since the Lord does not lie; He is a faithful God. When you do
your part by obediently following and acting upon His word, the Lord will do
His part to honor your faith so that His word comes to pass and bears fruit.
That is what happened when Cornelius decided to follow the instructions that
the angel of God gave to him.

> Around noon the next day, while Cornelius’ men were on their way and coming
close to Joppa, Peter went on the roof to pray. He became hungry and wanted to
eat. While the food was being prepared, he fell into a trance. He saw the sky
open and something like a large linen sheet being lowered by its four corners to
the ground. This happened three times. Then the sheet was quickly taken into the
sky.<cite>Acts 10:9,10,11,16 GW</cite>

Around noon, while the messengers that Cornelius sent were nearing Joppa, Simon
Peter went to pray on the roof of the house that he was lodging at. Whilst
praying, he became hungry and wanted to eat; but the food that was being
prepared was not ready. Whilst the food was being prepared, he fell into a
trance. Now, this is reminiscent of the story of Jesus' encounter with the woman
at the well that was mentioned in the [previous post][2]. As mentioned in that
story, Jesus arrived at a Samaritan town called Sychar, near the tract of land
that Jacob gave to his son Joseph; and Jacob’s well was there. So Jesus, tired
as He was from His journey, sat down by the well. It was then about the sixth
hour (noon) (John 4:5-6 AMP). Jesus arrived at a Samaritan town called Sychar
and sat down by Jacob's well at around noon, after a long walk from Judea. This
is the same time that Simon Peter went on the roof to pray. Jesus was alone at
the time because his disciples had gone into the village to buy some food (John
4:8 NLT). Jesus was waiting alone at the well whilst food was being bought for
Him by His disciples. Simon Peter was praying alone whilst food was being
prepared for him by his host. Whilst waiting alone at the well, a Samaritan
woman came to draw water, and Jesus said to her, “Please give me a drink” (John
4:7 NLT). While Peter was still thinking about the vision, the Spirit said to
him, “Simon, three men are looking for you. So get up and go downstairs. Do not
hesitate to go with them, for I have sent them” (Acts 10:19-20 NIV). The Lord
spoke with Simon Peter and told him to go with the men who were seeking him so
that Cornelius' decision to faithfully follow and obey the instructions that the
Lord gave to him would bear fruit.

Jesus was tired and weary from His journey, so He could have ignored the woman
who came to the well to draw water. He could have sat there and just waited for
His disciples to come back with food. But He did not. Instead, He chose to speak
with that woman. Likewise, Simon Peter was hungry, so he could have ignored the
messengers who came to see him. He could have just sat there on the roof of the
house that he was lodging at and waited for the food that was being prepared to
be ready. But he did not. Instead, Peter went down and said to the men, “I’m the
one you’re looking for. Why have you come?” (Acts 10:21 NIV).

Likewise, many times the Lord may tell you to do something when you prefer to be
doing something else. Like Jesus, the Holy Spirit may tell you to speak to
someone when you prefer to rest because you are tired and weary. The Holy Spirit
told Jesus to speak to the woman who walked toward Him at the well. Likewise,
the Holy Spirit may tell you to talk to someone that walks or stands or sits by
you when you prefer to just sit or stand on the subway or bus with your
earphones on listening to music whilst on the way to school or work. Or, like
Simon Peter, the Holy Spirit may tell you to go and speak with someone when you
prefer to eat because you are hungry. Yes, the Holy Spirit may tell you to speak
to someone whilst waiting in line to order lunch or sitting at your table while
the meal that you ordered at a restaurant is being prepared. Or, the Holy Spirit
may tell you to go and spend some time with a person or group of people when you
prefer to spend some time with your family, friends, or partner.

When such a scenario happens, you have a choice to make: do what the Lord wants
you to do, or do what you want to do. I suggest that you do what the Lord wants
to do. For, when you do your part by obediently following and acting upon His
word, the Lord will do His part to honor your faith such that His word comes to
pass and bears fruit. You may not fully understand why the Lord wants you to do
or say something to someone. That is okay. You don't have to understand why He
wants you to do or say that something. You just have to trust in Him. For, as
the Holy Spirit said to Simon Peter: do not hesitate. Do not hesitate to do what
the Lord tells you to do. Do not doubt or question why the Lord is telling you
to do or say something. All you have to do is do what the Lord tells you to do,
without hesitation or doubt, but by faith. And when you do that, you shall see
your obedient actions to His words bear fruit.

Jesus decided to do what the the Lord wanted Him to do; and as mentioned in the
previous post, the woman He encountered at the well, and many other people in
Samaria, came to believe in Him after hearing the woman and Him speak to them.
Likewise, Simon Peter chose to do what the Lord wanted Him to do. Simon Peter
decided to go with the messengers back to Cornelius' home. On the following day
he [and the others] entered Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them, and had
called together his relatives and close friends (Acts 10:24 AMP).

Cornelius vouched for Simon Peter---the man of God that an angel instructed him
to summon---to his relatives and close friends. Because Cornelius vouched for
Simon Peter, Cornelius' relatives and close friends also came to hear what this
man of God had to say. Now, this is similar to what the woman at the well from
the previous post did. The woman vouched for Jesus and told the people of her
village to come and see and hear what He had to say. And as mentioned in another
post, it is also similar to what Saul's servant did. Saul's servant vouched for
a man of God---Samuel the Prophet---suggesting that they go and see him and hear
what he has to say. And as mentioned in the previous post, you ought to vouch
for the men and women of God whom you view as credible to other people so that
they go and see them and hear what they have to say. Cornelius vouched to his
relatives and close friends. You can do likewise with your relatives and close
friends. Saul's servant vouched to his boss. You can do likewise with your
bosses, managers, and colleagues. The woman at the well vouched to acquaintances
and strangers whom she did not know. You can do likewise with people whom you do
not know (well).

> The Samaritan woman said to him, “You are a Jew and I am a Samaritan woman.
How can you ask me for a drink?” (For Jews do not associate with Samaritans.)
<cite>John 4:9 NIV</cite>
>
Peter told them, “You know it is against our laws for a Jewish man to enter a
Gentile home like this or to associate with you. But God has shown me that I
should no longer think of anyone as impure or unclean. So I came without
objection as soon as I was sent for. Now tell me why you sent for me.”
<cite>Acts 10:28-29 NLT</cite>

At the time, Jews did not associate with Samaritans. Nevertheless, Jesus, a Jew,
spoke with a Samaritan woman; and subsequently spoke to other Samaritans in the
town of Sychar. At the time, it was against the law for Jews to associate with
or visit Gentiles. Nevertheless, Simon Peter came without hesitation to
Cornelius' home and spoke with the people gathered there. Likewise, you may
think that you ought to shun rather than associate with a person or group of
people for some particular reason. Now, some of those reasons were mentioned in
previous posts. For example, a [previous post][3] mentioned that you may think
that you should shun rather than associate with those whom you view as wicked.
[Another post][4] suggested that you may think that you should shun rather than
associate with those who do or say things that you do not endorse or agree with.
For example, you may think that you should shun rather than associate with those
who have different political views or sexual preferences or religious beliefs.

But that should not be! Instead, you should follow the example that Jesus and
Simon Peter set. Like Jesus, you should be willing to associate with those whom
others do not associate with. At that time, Jews and Samaritans had differing
religious beliefs. For, as the woman at the well said to Jesus, "Our ancestors
worshiped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must
worship is in Jerusalem” (John 4:20 NIV). Likewise, He may not have agreed with
the fact that the woman was living with a man who was not her husband. And yet,
that did not stop Him from speaking with her instead of shunning her for her
choices. And like Simon Peter, you should not be hesitant to go and associate
with those whom others do not associate with. You should not raise any objection
when the Lord tells you to associate with people whom others would shun. Rather,
you should go by faith. And when you do that, you shall see your obedient action
to His instructions bear fruit. That is what happened with Simon Peter.

Simon Peter decided to go with the messengers back to Cornelius’ home; and he
spoke to those who were gathered at Cornelius’ home. And while Peter was still
speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all those who were listening to
the message [confirming God’s acceptance of Gentiles] (Acts 10:44 AMP). And the
Jewish believers who came with Peter were amazed that the gift of the Holy
Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles, too (Acts 10:45 NLT). Simon Peter
was willing to go and associate with them---Gentiles---because God showed him
that he should no longer think of anyone as impure or unclean. Likewise, you too
should no longer think of anyone as impure or unclean just because you do not
agree or endorse their actions, lifestyle, or views. Rather, like Simon Peter,
you too ought to be willing to go and associate with them. And when you do that,
you too may see the Holy Spirit poured out on them. But this does not happen if
you refuse to associate with others because you judge them to be impure or
unclean.

(It is of course possible that you do not care about others, such as those whom
you disagree with or view as wicked. Well, as mentioned in a [previous post][5],
whilst you may not care about others and their eternal destiny, the Lord cares
about all---including those whom people view as wicked. As such, you should put
aside your personal misgivings and go without doubt and hesitation to those whom
you would not normally associate with.)

As it was mentioned in the previous post, Jesus said to the woman at the well:
“If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, ‘Give Me a drink,’
you would have asked Him, and He would have given you living water” (John 4:10
NASB). For, “whoever drinks the water I give them will never thirst. Indeed, the
water I give them will become in them a spring of water welling up to eternal
life” (John 4:14 NIV). This living water---the Holy Spirit---is not only
available to Jews; it is available to all. Jesus said this to a Samaritan woman.
Thus, if she asked Jesus for this living water, then she would receive it! And
this living water was available to the Gentiles who gathered at Cornelius' home.
And it is also available to those whom you would shun rather than associate with
because you judge them to be wicked or impure. Therefore, go to those whom the
Lord tells you to go to and speak to. Even if they are people whom you would not
normally associate with for whatever reason. And when you do that, you will see
your obedient actions done by faith bear fruit. You will see the Spirit of God
pour out on those whom you did not expect would be poured out to. You will see
people whom you would least expect receive the Holy Spirit similarly to how
people did not expect to see Saul prophesying after the Holy Spirit was poured
out onto him and similarly to how the Jews were amazed because they did not
expect the Holy Spirit to be poured out onto the Gentiles. So just believe. And
go, without hesitations or doubts, but by faith.

God bless.

[1]: {% link _posts/2020-04-15-fragmentary.md %}
[2]: {% link _posts/2020-04-30-vouch-for-him.md %}
[3]: {% link _posts/2019-10-25-tax-collectors-and-sinners.md %}
[4]: {% link _posts/2019-09-25-retweets-do-not-imply-endorsement.md %}
[5]: {% link _posts/2019-11-06-a-tale-of-two-cities.md %}
