---
categories: [Life]
tags: [Life, Death, Higher Purpose]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Believers in Jesus have secured a spot in the Kingdom of Heaven for a reason:
  so that you may try and help others to safety through preaching Jesus to those
  who do not yet believe in Him.
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/72377124-2b478080-36dd-11ea-9ad3-42c27aaeb44a.jpg
---

> Then Esther sent this reply to Mordecai: “Go, gather together all the Jews who
are in Susa, and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day.
I and my attendants will fast as you do. When this is done, I will go to the
king, even though it is against the law. And if I perish, I perish.”
<cite>Esther 4:16 NIV</cite>

Esther asked one of her attendants to tell her cousin---Mordecai---to go gather
together all the Jews who are in Susa and fast for her by not eating or drinking
for three days. Esther commanded them to fast because it was brought to her
attention that the king allowed a decree be written in his name to destroy all
the Jews in the provinces of his kingdom because he was persuaded that it was
not fitting for the king to let the Jews remain living in his kingdom. And after
three days of fasting for her, Esther planned to go to the king even though it
is against the law. For, at that time, “All the king’s officials and the people
of the royal provinces know that for any man or woman who approaches the king in
the inner court without being summoned the king has but one law: that they be
put to death unless the king extends the gold scepter to them and spares their
lives” (Esther 4:11 NIV).

As the queen, she could have lived for herself whilst not caring about the
plight of her people---the Jews. And even though she too was a Jew, as the queen,
she could have thought that she would be safe from the destruction destined for
the rest of the Jews. As such, she could have not cared about trying to save the
Jews who were unsafe from the scheduled day of annihilation. She could have just
continued to live her life as the queen, secure in her belief that she is safe
from annihilation while not caring about the safety or destiny of others. Those
who believe in Jesus may not be too different. As believers in Jesus, we believe
that we are safe/saved from a destiny of eternal punishment because we received
the gift of eternal life with Jesus in heaven. As believers in Jesus, we may
have a tendency to live our lives, secure in our knowledge that we are safe from
the scheduled day of reckoning while not caring about the destiny of others who
do not believe in Jesus and are not saved. As such, we do not care to try and
help others to safety by preaching the Good News of Jesus Christ to those who do
not know Him. Instead, we who believe in Jesus live our lives whilst not caring
about the safety or destiny of others.

Esther had commanded all the Jews who are in Susa to fast for her after her
cousin---Mordecai---had persuaded her that she became the queen for a reason: to
try and save the Jews from their scheduled destruction. In other words, Esther
was persuaded to live not just for herself but for a higher purpose than herself.
Likewise, you who believes in Jesus have secured a spot in the Kingdom of Heaven
for a reason: so that you may try and help others to safety through preaching
Jesus to they who do not yet know Him. You were not saved just so that you may
live your life knowing that you have a spot in the Kingdom of Heaven. No! You
were saved so that you may live for a higher purpose than just yourself.

> On the third day of the fast, Esther put on her royal robes and entered the
inner court of the palace, just across from the king’s hall. The king was
sitting on his royal throne, facing the entrance. When he saw Queen Esther
standing there in the inner court, he welcomed her and held out the gold scepter
to her. So Esther approached and touched the end of the scepter. Then the king
asked her, “What do you want, Queen Esther? What is your request? I will give it
to you, even if it is half the kingdom!” And Esther replied, “If it please the
king, let the king and Haman come today to a banquet I have prepared for the
king.” <cite>Esther 5:1-4 NLT</cite>

On the third day of the fast, Esther put on her royal robes and entered the
inner court of the palace, just across from the king’s hall. As mentioned
earlier, it was against the law to approach the king in the inner court without
being summoned by him; and those who do shall be put to death unless the king
extends the golden scepter to them and spares their life. As such, when Esther
entered the inner court without being summoned beforehand by the king, she was
risking her life because there was no guarantee that the king would extend the
golden scepter to her and thus spare her life. But she did it anyways because
she was willing to risk her life in order to try and save the Jews from their
scheduled annihilation. She was a queen. She was a member of the elite ruling
class. She had money, power, and attendants. She was living a life of comfort.
And yet she was willing to risk it all in order to at least try and save others
from the scheduled annihilation.

You should do likewise. Like Queen Esther, you should be willing to risk your
life in order to try and save those who do not yet believe in Jesus from their
day of reckoning. Like Queen Esther, you may be living a life of comfort. You
may have a job. You may have money, power, attendants, and the like. But you
should be willing to risk your life of comfort in order to at least try and save
others from the eternal destruction that is scheduled for those who do not
believe in Jesus.

What if she chose not to risk it all? What if, she chose to focus on preserving
her life as well as all that it entails rather than risk losing her life and all
that it entails? What if she chose to not try and save the others from their
annihilation that was scheduled for a certain day? Then maybe she would become a
witness to their annihilation on the scheduled day. Would she have felt bad for
not at least trying to do something to save them? Would she have felt sad upon
witnessing the annihilation of her friends and family? Or would she have thought
to herself, "Well, at least I'm still alive." Would she have found comfort in
the life that she preserved for herself knowing that she did nothing to try and
preserve the life of others? Or would she come to find that everything that she
preserved with her life---job, status, money, power, attendants, and the
like---cannot provide comfort to her mind and her heart knowing that she did
nothing?

Likewise, what if you choose not to risk it all? What if you choose to focus on
preserving your life as well as all that it entails rather than losing your life
and all that it entails? What if you, as a believer in Jesus, chose to not try
and save others from the day of reckoning that is scheduled for a certain day?
Would you feel bad for not at least trying to do something to save them even
though you know the fate of those who do not believe in Jesus? Would you feel
sad knowing the fate of your friends and family who do not yet believe in Jesus?
Or do you only care that your life is secure and comfortable whilst not caring
about the lives of other people?

There was a couple of months between the day that Queen Esther found out about
the king's decree to destroy all the Jews in the provinces of his kingdom and
the day that such destruction was to take place. Would she be able to live day
in and day out knowing about the impending annihilation that is scheduled to
come without doing something to at least try and save them? Would she be able to
fall asleep knowing she did everything she could to at least try and save others
or would she lay awake at night knowing that she has done nothing? Would she
awake to live her life whilst believing that she is safe in the kingdom? Or
would she awake knowing there are people outside of this kingdom who are
destined for annihilation, therefore think that she must do something to at
least try and save them?

As a believer in Jesus, you may know that there is only a certain amount of time
before the scheduled day of reckoning is to take place. How is it that you are
able to live day in and day out knowing about the impending day of reckoning
that is scheduled to come without doing something to at least try to save those
who do not yet believe in Jesus? How are you able to fall asleep peacefully
knowing that you have done nothing? How are you able to wake up and live your
life of comfort knowing that you have a spot secured in the Kingdom of Heaven
whilst also knowing that there are people who are not yet saved from the day of
reckoning because they do not yet believe in Jesus? Is it because you only care
about yourself and not about other people?

There were many Jews living in the provinces of his kingdom. Therefore, it is
reasonable to presume that Queen Esther had not personally met or known all of
the Jews who were living in the provinces of his kingdom. And yet, Queen Esther
was willing to risk her life to try and save people whom she has not met before
and did not personally know. Likewise, there are a lot of people in this world
who do not yet believe in Jesus whom you have never personally met or known. So
you may be wondering how you may, like Queen Esther, do something to save people
whom you have never met or known beforehand. This is not a new idea. The advent
of radio and television has allowed people to preach Jesus and share the Word of
God to listeners and viewers all around the world. And I reckon that it is safe
to presume that the radio and televangelist have not met or known every listener
and viewer of their programs. More recently, with the advent of the Internet, a
person can preach Jesus and share the Word of God through a variety of mediums,
such as: websites and blogs; podcasts; live streaming through a social media
platform such as Facebook, Youtube, or Twitch; and the like. And I reckon that
it is safe to presume that those who preach Jesus and share the Word of God
through one or more of these platforms will not have met or known every reader,
listener, or viewer. But we preach Jesus and share the Word of God through these
different mediums and platforms for the purpose of trying to save those who do
not yet know Jesus from the scheduled day of reckoning that is to come. Because,
as mentioned in a [previous post][1], for a person to believe in Him, the person
must first hear about Him. Therefore, it is our hope that those who happen upon
our website or podcast or live stream shall hear the Word of God and decide to
believe in Jesus and accept Jesus as their personal Saviour and get to know Him.
Through the use of these different mediums and platforms, we have an opportunity
to at least try and do something to save people whom we may never meet or know
personally similarly to how Queen Esther decided to do something to at least try
and save people whom she has not met or known personally.

When Queen Esther approached the king on the third day of the fast, he said to
her: "What is your request? I will give it to you, even if it is half the
kingdom!" Queen Esther could have asked for half the kingdom and the king would
have given it to her. But she did not. Instead, she requested for the king to
attend the banquet that she had prepared for him. In other words, Queen Esther
could have chosen to live for herself and for her benefit only. But she did not.
Instead, she decided to live for a higher purpose than herself. She chose to use
her position to try and help those who were destined for annihilation. And
because she chose to live for a higher purpose than herself, she was able to
save a multitude of people who were destined for annihilation. In this
way, Esther is not too different from Jesus. Esther fasted for three days and
nights. Jesus fasted for forty days and nights in the wilderness. At the end of
the fast, she went to the king who was willing to give her half his kingdom. At
the end of Jesus' fasting, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed
him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, “All
these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me” (Matthew 4:8-9
ESV). Like Esther, Jesus could have chosen to live for himself and his own
benefit by doing a certain something in exchange for all the kingdoms of the
world. But like Esther, Jesus did not. Instead, Jesus chose to live for a higher
purpose. Jesus decided to live for the purposes of trying to save the people who
are destined for eternal destruction on the day of reckoning. And like Esther,
because Jesus chose to live for a higher purpose, he was able to save a
multitude who were destined for eternal destruction. And that is because, like
Esther, Jesus was willing to die in order to save us.

The kingdom that was offered to Esther and Jesus could be considered as a
temptation that is made available to them. And if accepted, said temptation will
distract them from focusing on their purpose. Likewise, we can be tempted by
things of this world that may cause us to become distracted from focusing on our
purpose. However, like Esther and Jesus, we ought not succumb to such temptation
and distractions. Instead, we ought to keep focused on our purpose in life.

One last thing. In [another message][2], shared previously, it was mentioned
that people of this world do not think that it is a good idea to associate with
or befriend those whom they view as wicked. And the example used in the previous
message was that of a former president of a country. The people of this world
thought that everyone should shun this person like a leper rather than associate
with let alone befriend this person. The message, on the other hand, suggested
that we who believe in Jesus should be willing to associate with and befriend
such people so that we may be in a position to compel them to turn from their
old ways and to instead seek God and His righteousness by following Jesus as
well as becoming His disciple. Because I tell you the truth: whilst you may not
be willing to associate with those whom you view as wicked, other people shall
have no such reservations; and it is they who shall be in a position to
influence those who are in power.

As it was mentioned at the beginning of this post, the king allowed a decree be
written in his name to destroy all the Jews in the provinces of his kingdom
because he was persuaded that it was not fitting for the king to let the Jews
remain living in his kingdom. Who influenced the king to let such a decree to be
written in his name? Someone who had no reservations about associating with the
king so that they may be in a position to influence the king. And that is what
happened. The person influenced the king to decree something that would result
in death. Rather than thinking that it is not a good idea to associate with and
befriend those whom you view as wicked, what if you followed the example set by
the person who influenced the king? What if, instead of shunning the presidents
of countries, culture, companies, and the like, you associate with them so that
you may be positioned to influence them? Then maybe you can influence them to
decree something that would result in life rather than death.

If you don't position yourself to become a person of influence in a someone's
life, somebody else will. So why not you? You could be the difference between
life and death. Of multitudes. Think about that.

God bless.

[1]: {% link _posts/2018-12-19-the-birth-of-death.md %}
[2]: {% link _posts/2019-10-25-tax-collectors-and-sinners.md %}
