---
categories: [World]
tags: [Knowledge, Prophecy, Spirit, Trust]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Our knowledge is fragmentary and incomplete. We only know in part, so we can
  only prophesy in part. This is because we can only speak of what we know. And
  what we know is incomplete and partial.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/79184573-85daa080-7de2-11ea-9c28-add63ae2e411.jpg
  caption: >-
    The land of Benjamin part of a map of Judea from the book, "A Pisgah Sight
    of Palestine and the Confines Thereof: With the History of the Old and New
    Testament Acted Thereon," which depicts some of the places that Saul passed
    through whilst looking for the missing donkeys, such as Gibeah, Ramah, and
    Zelzah.
  credit: Thomas Fuller / Stanford Digital Repository
---

> Love never fails [it never fades nor ends]. But as for prophecies, they will
pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for the gift of special
knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part [for
our knowledge is fragmentary and incomplete].
<cite>1 Corinthians 13:8-9 AMP</cite>
>
Love never comes to an end. There is the gift of speaking what God has revealed,
but it will no longer be used. There is the gift of speaking in other languages,
but it will stop by itself. There is the gift of knowledge, but it will no
longer be used. Our knowledge is incomplete and our ability to speak what God
has revealed is incomplete. <cite>1 Corinthians 13:8-9 GW</cite>

As mentioned in the previous post, the Lord knows better than you and your
circle of family, friends, confidantes, et al. about you and the direction that
you should go in your life. And that is because the guidance and advice that
other people give to you is limited by their knowledge. For, as it is written in
the Scripture quoted above, our knowledge is fragmentary and incomplete. We only
know in part, so we can only prophesy in part. This is because we can only speak
of what we know. And what we know is incomplete and partial.

This is why the messages that are shared here may seem incomplete. It is because
the Lord has only revealed a fragment of the whole picture. A piece of the whole
puzzle. And this portion of the whole puzzle is all that I can share since that
is all that the Lord has shared to me. It is also why subsequent posts may build
upon previous messages. It is because the Lord reveals a new fragment/piece of
the puzzle that connects with what He has previously revealed.

> After this I will pour out My Spirit on all humanity; then your sons and your
daughters will prophesy, your old men will have dreams, and your young men will
see visions. <cite>Joel 2:28 HCSB</cite>

This gift of prophecy is not limited to a select few. In fact, as it is written
in the Scripture that is quoted above, there shall be a time when the Lord pours
out His Spirit on all people; your sons and daughters will prophesy, your old
men will dream dreams, and your young men will see visions. A preview of this
time may be seen in the story of Saul. (Yes, the same Saul whom a prophet named
Samuel anointed to be king over the people of Israel because they demanded that
a king---instead of the Lord---lead them and [fight their battles][1] and
[save them from their troubles][2].) After Samuel the Prophet anointed Saul as
king over the people of Israel, Samuel the Prophet told Saul: When you leave me
today, you’ll meet two men near Rachel’s tomb at Zelzah in the territory of
Benjamin. They’ll tell you, “The donkeys you’ve been looking for have been found
(1 Samuel 10:2 CEV). Go on from there until you reach the big oak tree at Tabor,
where you’ll meet three men on their way to worship God at Bethel (1 Samuel 10:3
CEV). After they greet you, they’ll give you two loaves of bread (1 Samuel 10:4
CEV). Next, go to Gibeah, where the Philistines have an army camp. As you’re
going into the town, you’ll meet a group of prophets coming down from the place
of worship. They’ll be going along prophesying while others are walking in front
of them, playing small harps, small drums, and flutes (1 Samuel 10:5 CEV). At
that time the Spirit of the Lord will come powerfully upon you, and you will
prophesy with them. You will be changed into a different person (1 Samuel 10:5
NLT).

Samuel the Prophet gave Saul specific directions as to which route/path to
follow to travel back to his father's home. Samuel the Prophet told Saul to go
to Rachel's tomb at Zelzah, where he will meet two men. Then Samuel the Prophet
told Saul to go to the big tree at Tabor, where he will meet three men who will
greet him and give him two loaves of bread. And finally, Samuel the Prophet told
Saul to go to Gibeah, where he will meet a group of prophets and worshippers. As
is mentioned in the previous post, Lord knows best which direction/route you
should take to get to your destination because He is all-knowing. He knows what
will happen when you take a certain route. And He knows whether or not you will
cross paths with obstacles and/or dead ends along the route. He knows whom and
what you will encounter along the way. And He knows exactly where you shall come
across these obstacles and people along your journey. Because He is all-seeing.
That is why Samuel the Prophet was able to give Saul such detailed information
regarding whom he would encounter (and where) along the way back to his father's
home. It is because the Lord revealed those specific details to Samuel so that
he would relay that information to Saul.

As mentioned in the previous post, whether or not you follow the directions that
the Lord advise you to go is ultimately up to you. You may choose to follow the
Lord's directions. Or you may choose to follow different directions. Maybe your
own directions or the directions that your family, friends, and confidantes, et
al. advise you to go. Saul too could have chosen to not follow the directions
that the Lord gave him through Samuel the Prophet. Rather, Saul could have taken
a different route. Instead, Saul could have gone back to his father's home via
the way he came. Saul originally left his father's home because the donkeys of
Kish, Saul’s father, had wandered off and were lost. So Kish said to his son
Saul, “Please take one of the servants with you and arise, go look for the
donkeys” (1 Samuel 9:3 AMP). So they set off to look for the donkeys. He passed
through the hill country of Ephraim and passed through the land of Shalishah,
but they did not find them. Then they passed through the land of Shaalim, but
they were not there. Then he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they
did not find them (1 Samuel 9:4 NASB). And finally, they entered the region of
Zuph, and Saul said to his servant, “Let’s go home. By now my father will be
more worried about us than about the donkeys!” (1 Samuel 9:5 NLT). From his
father's home, Saul went through the hill country of Ephraim, then through the
land of Shalishah, then through the land of Shaalim, then through the land of
the Benjamites, and finally to the region of Zuph. That is the route that he
took. Saul could have gone back the way that he came. He could have went from
the region of Zuph, then through the land of the Benjamites, then through the
land of Shaalim, then through the land of Shalishah, and then through the hill
country of Ephraim to reach his father's home. But he did not. Instead, Saul
chose to follow the directions/route that the Lord told him to go through Samuel
the Prophet.

Now, Saul met with Samuel the Prophet whilst in the region of Zuph. For, after
Saul suggested to his servant that they go back home, the servant said to him,
“Look here, in this city there is a man of God, and the man is held in honor;
everything that he says comes true. Now let us go there; perhaps he can advise
us about our journey [and tell us where we should go]” (1 Samuel 9:6 AMP). Now,
in this case, the servant made a suggestion to Saul; and he followed the advice
of his servant. They went and met the man of God---Samuel. For, as mentioned in
the previous post, you do not have to stop listening or seeking or following the
advice of others such as your family, friends, and confidantes (or in this case,
a servant). But you may have to choose whose advice you shall follow if the
Lord's advice is different from other people's advice. When they met the man of
God, Samuel gave them detailed directions of the path to take. And Saul chose to
follow Samuel's directions. This is because Saul trusted the advice that Samuel
the prophet gave to him. Saul did not personally know Samuel the Prophet. And as
it was mentioned in the previous post, you might not give your trust to others
if you do not know them. Yet, Saul trusted Samuel the Prophet's advice. Why is
that? I reckon it is because of Samuel the Prophet's reputation. Samuel the
Prophet is highly respected by all since everything he says comes to pass. You
may not know someone personally, but you may hear good things about that person
through others (such as those whom you do trust). And those people may vouch for
the someone whom you do not know. And because of this, you may choose to trust
that person even though you do not personally know them. That is what Saul did.
Even though Saul did not personally know Samuel the Prophet, he chose to trust
and follow the guidance that Samuel the Prophet gave to him because his servant
had told him that Samuel the Prophet is trustworthy and reputable.

As Saul turned and started to leave, God gave him a new heart, and all Samuel’s
signs were fulfilled that day. When Saul and his servant arrived at Gibeah, they
saw a group of prophets coming toward them. Then the Spirit of God came
powerfully upon Saul, and he, too, began to prophesy (1 Samuel 10:9-10 NLT). All
the signs that Samuel detailed were fulfilled that day. But that does not happen
if Saul chooses to not follow the directions that the Lord gave to him through
Samuel the Prophet. If Saul chose to take a different route home, then he would
not have crossed paths with the two men that were by Rachel's tomb at Zeltzah;
and the two men would not have had an opportunity to tell Saul that the donkey's
that they were looking for have been found. If Saul chose to take a different
route home, then he would not have encountered the three men by the big oak tree
in Tabor; and those three men would not have had an opportunity to greet him or
give him two loaves of bread. And if Saul chose to take a different route home,
then he would not have come across a group of prophets and worshippers; and the
Spirit of God would not have come upon him, resulting in him prophesying with
them. So, you should follow the guidance that the Lord gives you (whether it be
directly as you pray to the Lord and commune with Him or indirectly through
prophets and other people) lest you miss the connections that the Lord has
prepared for you.

The Spirit of the Lord came upon Saul; and he started prophesying. That is a
preview of the time that is to come when the Lord pours out His Spirit on all
humanity like He did with Saul. And like Saul, your sons and your daughters will
start to prophesy, your old men will dream dreams, your young men will see
visions. When all who knew him formerly saw that he prophesied with prophets,
the people said to one another, “What is this that has happened to the son of
Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?” (1 Samuel 10:11 LEB). People who knew
Saul saw him prophesying with prophets. They were surprised by this. They did
not expect to see Saul prophesying with prophets. They did not realize that the
Spirit of the Lord came upon him and changed him into a different person. Thus,
the people who knew him wondered what happened to cause him to start prophesying
with prophets. Like the people who used to know Saul, the people who knew you
will also wonder what happened to you when the Spirit of the Lord comes upon you
and they see you prophesying. The people who knew you will be surprised to see
you prophesying because they do not expect it. They may have been surprised at
the unexpected sight of you prophesying because they know your past. Your past
actions. Your past misdeeds. Your flaws and imperfections. The skeletons in your
closet that they think preclude you from being loved and accepted by God. But
what they may not know is that God's love never fails; it neither fades nor
ends. As such, irregardless of your past, the Lord is willing to pour out His
Spirit upon you. And just like Saul, you shall be changed into a different
person. Just believe.

God bless.

[1]: {% link _posts/2019-01-16-drain-the-swamp.md %}
[2]: {% link _posts/2019-01-23-the-battle-is-the-lords.md %}
