---
categories: [Life]
tags: [Me Too]
alternateTitle: I Shall Not Want
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  If the Lord is not your Shepherd, then something else is your shepherd. If the
  Lord is not the One who leads and guides your life, then it is something else
  who leads and guides your life.
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/74894523-3b4a2400-535d-11ea-982c-65db27cbb8ee.jpg
---

>
The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want.
<cite>Psalm 23:1 NKJV</cite>
>
The Lord is my shepherd, I lack nothing.
<cite>Psalm 23:1 NIV</cite>
>
Because the Lord is my Shepherd, I have everything I need!
<cite>Psalm 23:1 TLB</cite>

The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. In other words, when the Lord is your
shepherd, you shall not lack anything; instead, you shall have everything that
you need. (Note that it says that you shall have everything that you *need*, and
not everything that you *want*.) Now, the things that you shall not lack is not
limited to worldly things such as money; jobs or businesses; private homes,
cars, and jets; and the like. No! This lack is referring to every area of your
life. For, there are a multitude of people who do not lack such worldly things,
yet feel empty inside because they lack in other areas of their lives such as:
mental and physical health; love, joy, peace, and other emotional needs; purpose
and fulfillment; and the like. But when the Lord is your shepherd, you shall not
lack in any aspect of your life.

Now, this is not to say that you will be shielded from challenges and
difficulties when the Lord is your shepherd. For, as King David (the author)
says: Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no
evil, for You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me (Psalm 23:4
NASB). In his journey in life, King David walked through the valley of the
shadow of death. Or, in other words, King David experienced challenges and
difficulties in his journey in life. But, as mentioned in previous messages, the
Lord is always with you. And the Lord is there for you in the midst of the
challenges or difficulties that you are facing. The Lord is there to meet your
needs whilst amidst your challenges or difficulties. The Lord gives you peace so
that you do not fear. The Lord gives you comfort so that you are not overcome
with anxiety and stress whilst amidst your challenges or difficulties. The Lord
gives you strength so that you are not overpowered by your challenges and
difficulties. And the Lord gives you wisdom and guidance so that you may get
through your challenges and difficulties.

Likewise, King David said: You prepare a feast for me in the presence of my
enemies. You honor me by anointing my head with oil. My cup overflows with
blessings (Psalm 23:5 NLT). Now, as a follower of the Lord your Shepherd, the
people of this world may hate on you or condemn you because they disagree with
you and your beliefs. Such people may cause challenges or difficulties in your
life. But when the Lord is your Shepherd, He shall prepare a feast for you in
the presence of your enemies. In other words, your enemies shall see that the
Lord is with you. Likewise, your enemies will see that the Lord has honored your
faith in Him. And your enemies will see that the Lord has abundantly blessed you
such that you do not lack in any aspect of your life.

If the Lord is not your Shepherd, then someone or something else is your
shepherd. If the Lord is not the One who leads and guides you in your journey in
life, then it is someone or something else who leads and guides you in your
journey in life. This may be illustrated in a particular story in King David's
life---the story of King David and a woman named Bathsheba, which you may read
in chapters eleven and twelve in The Second Book of Samuel. But for the purposes
of this post, here is a brief summary of that story: One day, King David saw a
woman bathing from the roof of his home. Intrigued, David inquired about her;
and he found out that she (Bathsheba) is the daughter of a man named Eliam and
the wife of a man named Uriah. Undeterred, she sent messengers to bring her to
him so that he may lay with her. This unbalanced power dynamic between the man
(David) and the woman (Bathsheba) may be familiar to those who have had similar
experiences or read similar stories in this day and age. Experiences and stories
that birthed the #MeToo movement. However, as mentioned in previous the posts,
while the Lord will always love you, He may not agree with your action. The Lord
also did not agree with David's actions, as you will see later. King David's
action resulted in Bathsheba becoming pregnant. When he found out that she was
with child, he came up with a plan to hide his indiscretion. When that plan
failed, David came up with another plan to get her husband intentionally killed
in the battlefield. This plan succeeded.

Now, in this particular instance, was the Lord David's Shepherd? Was King David
following the lead and guidance of the Lord when he chose to lay with Bathsheba,
and subsequently chose to have her husband killed in the battlefield? No, he was
not. The Lord was not his Shepherd in this instance. So who was King David's
shepherd in this instance? His own desire. For, each one is tempted when he is
drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then, when desire has conceived, it
gives birth to sin; and sin, when it is full-grown, brings forth death (James
1:14-15 NKJV). In other words, temptation is the pull of man’s own evil thoughts
and wishes. These evil thoughts lead to evil actions and afterwards to the death
penalty from God (James 1:14-15 TLB). David was enticed by the woman that he saw
from the roof of his home; David desired her. David acted upon his desire; it
birthed sin and brought forth death. In this instance, David was lead by his own
desires instead of the Lord. But if the Lord was his Shepherd in this instance,
then he would not have been lead to sin. For the Lord does not lead you to sin;
rather, He leads you in the paths of righteousness For His name’s sake (Psalm
23:3 NKJV).

In this way, David is not too different from Adam and Eve. As mentioned in a
previous post, Adam and Eve worked in the garden of Eden; they were allowed to
eat of the fruit of every tree in the garden of Eden except for the fruit from
the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. One day, they were enticed to eat
fruit from that tree. The woman saw that the tree had fruit that was good to
eat, nice to look at, and desirable for making someone wise. So she took some of
the fruit and ate it. She also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and
he ate it (Genesis 3:6 GW). The woman desired the fruit of the tree. Therefore,
like King David, the woman acted upon that desire; and it birthed sin, which
brought forth death. The Lord was not Adam and Eve's shepherd in this instance;
instead, they were lead and guided by their own desires.

> I gave your master’s house to you, and your master’s wives into your arms. I
gave you all Israel and Judah. And if all this had been too little, I would have
given you even more. <cite>2 Samuel 12:8 NIV</cite>

As mentioned in that previous post, Adam and Eve ate of the fruit from the tree
of the knowledge of good and evil because they were unsatisfied with what the
Lord had already given them, namely the fruit of every other tree in the garden
of Eden. And because of this dissatisfaction, they desired more. Likewise, King
David was unsatisfied with all that the Lord had already given him. And because
of his dissatisfaction, David desired more. This desire for more was not because
the Lord did not give David enough such that he was lacking in some area of his
life. The Lord gave David more than enough. The Lord gave David his master's
house and wives. The Lord also gave David all of Israel and Judah. And if what
the Lord had given him was too little, then the Lord would have given him even
more so that he has enough for all his needs. Thus, King David's desire for more
was born from his dissatisfaction with what the Lord had already given him, and
not because the Lord did not give him enough.

Like Adam and Eve and David, people of this world may be dissatisfied with what
they have. Because of this dissatisfaction, they desire more even though they
have more than enough for their needs; so the people of this world act upon this
desire for more. You may have noticed this, as there has been an increased
frequency of such stories over the last couple of years. Stories of men (the
married and unmarried variety) in a plethora of industries (such as the media,
entertainment, sports, government, finance, tech, religious, non-profit, and the
like) acting upon their desire to be with women who are not their wives. Women
such as journalists, actresses, gymnasts, porn stars, analysts and managers,
engineers, church members, activists and volunteers, and the like. Women who had
not consented to such actions by those men. Women who were taken advantage of by
men in positions of power and influence. Women who felt like they had no choice
but to begrudgingly accept such behaviour from men lest they be fired or denied
future opportunities in the business or industry. In these cases, the men may be
like David and the woman like Bathsheba, who may have felt like she had no
choice but to partake in what David wanted to do with her because of the
unbalanced power dynamic between them and the consequence or retaliation that
could arise if she did not partake in what he wanted to do with her.

As mentioned earlier, even though the Lord shall always love you, the Lord does
not always endorse or agree with your actions because those actions birth sin
and bring forth death (or consequences). Those consequences may include: death
of your job or business; death of your reputation; death of your marriage; death
of harmony with your friends, family, church community, colleagues, and social
groups; and the like. The Lord did not agree with David's action. In fact, the
Lord was displeased with what David had done (2 Samuel 11:27 NLT) since the
thing that David had done was evil in the sight of the Lord (2 Samuel 11:27
NASB). Likewise, the thing that David had done birthed sin and brought forth
death (or consequences). Those consequences included: death of the child that he
conceived with the woman, Bathsheba; death of relationship with his other wives;
and death of harmony in his household.

So: Whom shall you choose to be your shepherd? Shall you choose the Lord as your
Shepherd? Or shall you choose to be lead by your own desires? I suggest for you
to let the Lord be your Shepherd rather than be lead by your own desires. If you
have been letting your own desires lead and guide your actions in life, it is
not too late to change course. It is not too late to start letting the Lord lead
and guide your actions in life. It is not too late to start letting the Lord be
your Shepherd in life. For, even though the Lord did not endorse or agree with
David's actions, the Lord forgave David. Likewise, even though the Lord did not
endorse or agree with the actions of the men who were exposed in the #MeToo era,
the Lord is willing to forgive those people. Whilst the people of this world may
not be willing to forgive those caught in the #MeToo era, the Lord is willing to
forgive them. The Lord is also willing to give those people a second chance in
life. And the Lord is willing to conceive new life to that which died because of
their actions. If their job or business died because of their action, then the
Lord is willing to conceive a new job for them. Likewise, if their friendships
died because of their action, the Lord is willing to conceive new friends for
them. And If their church died because of their action, then the Lord is willing
to conceive a new church for them. Thus, if you currently find that some aspects
of your life are dead because you chose to follow the lead of your own desire,
then you too may have a new beginning in life by choosing to instead follow the
lead / guidance of the Lord. Just believe. And let the Lord be your Shepherd.

God bless.
