---
categories: [Life]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Jesus can remove the roadblocks that stop you from going down certain paths in
  life. Because of Jesus, you can go down paths that used to contain obstacles
  that you used to avoid.
image:
  path: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45976390/91338058-541b1280-e7a2-11ea-891f-daf48785f37d.jpg
---

> When He had come to the other side, to the country of the Gergesenes, there
met Him two demon-possessed men, coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce,
so that no one could pass that way. <cite>Matthew 8:28 NKJV</cite>

There were two demon-possessed men who lived amongst the tombs; and because of
this, no one could pass through that area lest they be met by them. Likewise,
there can be challenges / obstacles in one's life that can prevent you from
going down a certain path in life. And instead of attempting to confront or
overcome those challenges and obstacles in one's life, you instead try to avoid
them and learn to live with them. That is what the people of the Gergesenes did
with the two demon-possessed men. Rather than confronting and overcoming this
challenge / obstacle that lived amongst the tombs and prevented them from going
down the path, they avoided that area and learned to live with that obstacle in
life.

From an individual standpoint, anything that you fear can stop you from going
down a certain path in life; and instead of trying to confront or overcome those
fears and obstacles, you learn to live with it and avoid things that may require
you to face your fears. For example, fears of social situations may cause you to
avoid going out and meeting new people. Fears of failure may cause you to not
even try to do something. And from a societal level, fear of racial profiling or
discrimination can cause certain people to refrain from going in or through
certain neighbourhoods.

But fear not, for Jesus can remove those obstacles from your midst. That is what
happened with the two demon-possessed men. He said to them, “Go!” So they came
out [of the men] and went into the pigs, and the whole herd rushed down the
steep bank into the sea and died in the water (Matthew 8:32 AMP). Yes, Jesus
confronted and removed the obstacles that caused people to avoid that area.
Likewise, Jesus can also remove the obstacles and challenges in your life that
you live with and avoid confronting because of fear. With Jesus, you do not have
to fear the challenges / obstacles that block your path. With Jesus, you can
have the courage to confront those obstacles. Because with Jesus, you can have
confidence that those challenges and obstacles that block your path shall go
from you and perish and be removed and cease to exist.

> And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw Him, they
begged Him to depart from their region. <cite>Matthew 8:34 NIV</cite>

Jesus was at the place where the two demon-possessed men used to terrorise the
people. And yet the whole city came out to meet Him. In other words, the people
went to the area that they used to avoid because of the two demon-possessed men.
Because of Jesus, the people were able to walk down the path that contained the
obstacle that they used to avoid. Likewise, Jesus can remove the roadblocks that
stop you from going down certain paths in life. And because of Jesus, you too
can go down paths that used to contain obstacles that you used to avoid. Just
believe.

God bless.
