---
categories: [Life]
tags: [Life, Death]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  Send word! Share the Word of God to others so that they may come to believe in
  Jesus Christ and secure eternal life in heaven.
image:
  path:
---

> Behold, about this time tomorrow, I will send a very heavy hail, such as has
not been seen in Egypt from the day it was founded until now. So now, send word,
bring your livestock and whatever you have in the field to safety. Every person
and animal that is found in the field and is not brought home, when the hail
comes down on them, will die. <cite>Exodus 9:18-19 NASB</cite>

Pharoah was told in advance about what was to come. Pharaoh could have ignored
this warning because of lack of belief in the words that he was told. Likewise,
Pharoah could have decided to not say anything to those who were still in the
field because of indifference toward their lives. Pharoah could have thought to
himself, "As long as I survive what is to come, that is all that matters. What
happens to other people is not my concern."

In fact, some time before he was forewarned about the devastating hail that was
to come, Pharaoh was told in advance about a plague that will fall upon the land
of Egypt. The Lord said to Pharoah: If you refuse to let them go and continue to
hold them back, the hand of the Lord will bring a terrible plague on your
livestock in the field---on your horses, donkeys and camels and on your cattle,
sheep and goats (Exodus 9:2-3,5 NIV). Pharoah may not have bothered to warn
others of the pestilence that was to come. As such, when the Lord did just as he
had said the next morning, all the livestock of the Egyptians died (Exodus 9:6).

Like Pharoah, you may know about what is to come. And like Pharoah, you may
decide to not say anything to those (unbelievers) who are still in the field
because of indifference to their lives. Like Pharoah, you may think, "As long
as my life is secure, that is all that matters. Whatever happens to others is
not my concern."

But that should not be! Instead, you should share the Word of God to others so
that they may come to believe in Jesus Christ. Of course, not everyone whom you
share the Word of God to shall believe you. Some shall come to believe in Jesus
Christ when you share the Word of God with them; others shall not. That is out
of your control. All you can do is share the Word of God to others and let them
decide on whether or not to believe.

In that sense, it is not too different from what happened when Pharaoh sent word
to those in the field about the hail that was to come. Whoever feared the word
of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh hurried his slaves and his livestock
into the houses, but whoever did not pay attention to the word of the Lord left
his slaves and his livestock in the field (Exodus 9:20-21 ESV). Some believed
and hurried their livestock to safety whilst others did not believe and left the
livestock out in the field. Each person in the field made their own choice on
what to do after hearing the word that Pharoah shared to them.

Therefore, send word! Share the Word of God to others; and they shall ultimately
decide whether or not to believe in Jesus Christ and secure eternal life in
heaven. God bless.
