---
categories: [Culture]
description: >- # description must be indented because we are using block scalar
  A sample post I use for testing purposes

# data for testing include genealogy
type: Person
name: Adam
gender: Male
parent: [God]
spouse: [Eve]
children: [Cain, Abel, Seth]

hero:
  -
    image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/echo-hereweare.jpg
    caption: Echo the life...
  -
    video: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/echo-hereweare.webm
    caption: Echo co co co...
  -
    image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/big_buck_bunny.jpg
    caption: Theatrical Poster for Big Buck Bunny
  -
    video: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/big_buck_bunny.webm
    caption: Theatrical Trailer for Big Buck Bunny
  -
    include: genealogy.html
  -
    audio: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/AirReview-Landmarks-02-ChasingCorporate.mp3
    caption: Chasing Corporate, the 2nd track on Air Review's album, Landmarks

mixedCarousel:
  -
    image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/big_buck_bunny.jpg
    caption: Theatrical Poster for Big Buck Bunny
  -
    video: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/echo-hereweare.webm
    caption: Echo co co co...
  -
    audio: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/AirReview-Landmarks-02-ChasingCorporate.mp3
    caption: Chasing Corporate, the 2nd track on Air Review's album, Landmarks

oneAudioCarousel:
  -
    audio: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/AirReview-Landmarks-02-ChasingCorporate.mp3
    caption: Chasing Corporate, the 2nd track on Air Review's album, Landmarks

oneVideoCarousel:
  -
    video: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/big_buck_bunny.webm
    caption: Theatrical Trailer for Big Buck Bunny

oneImageCarousel:
  -
    image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files/master/echo-hereweare.jpg
    caption: Echo the life...
---

> Neque porro quisquam est qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet, consectetur,
adipisci velit...

{% include carousel.html items=page.mixedCarousel %}

> There is no one who loves pain itself, who seeks after it and wants to have it,
simply because it is pain...

Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium
doloremque laudantium, totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore
veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae dicta sunt explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam
voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, sed quia
consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt. Neque
porro quisquam est, qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci
velit, sed quia non numquam eius modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore
magnam aliquam quaerat voluptatem. Ut enim ad minima veniam, quis nostrum
exercitationem ullam corporis suscipit laboriosam, nisi ut aliquid ex ea commodi
consequatur? Quis autem vel eum iure reprehenderit qui in ea voluptate velit
esse quam nihil molestiae consequatur, vel illum qui dolorem eum fugiat quo
voluptas nulla pariatur?

{% include carousel.html items=page.oneAudioCarousel %}

But I must explain to you how all this mistaken idea of denouncing pleasure and
praising pain was born and I will give you a complete account of the system, and
expound the actual teachings of the great explorer of the truth, the
master-builder of human happiness. No one rejects, dislikes, or avoids pleasure
itself, because it is pleasure, but because those who do not know how to pursue
pleasure rationally encounter consequences that are extremely painful. Nor again
is there anyone who loves or pursues or desires to obtain pain of itself,
because it is pain, but because occasionally circumstances occur in which toil
and pain can procure him some great pleasure. To take a trivial example, which
of us ever undertakes laborious physical exercise, except to obtain some
advantage from it? But who has any right to find fault with a man who chooses to
enjoy a pleasure that has no annoying consequences, or one who avoids a pain
that produces no resultant pleasure?

At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio dignissimos ducimus qui blanditiis
praesentium voluptatum deleniti atque corrupti quos dolores et quas molestias
excepturi sint occaecati cupiditate non provident, similique sunt in culpa qui
officia deserunt mollitia animi, id est laborum et dolorum fuga. Et harum quidem
rerum facilis est et expedita distinctio. Nam libero tempore, cum soluta nobis
est eligendi optio cumque nihil impedit quo minus id quod maxime placeat facere
possimus, omnis voluptas assumenda est, omnis dolor repellendus. Temporibus
autem quibusdam et aut officiis debitis aut rerum necessitatibus saepe eveniet
ut et voluptates repudiandae sint et molestiae non recusandae. Itaque earum
rerum hic tenetur a sapiente delectus, ut aut reiciendis voluptatibus maiores
alias consequatur aut perferendis doloribus asperiores repellat.

{% include carousel.html items=page.oneVideoCarousel %}

On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who
are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so
blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound
to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through
weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and
pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour,
when our power of choice is untrammelled and when nothing prevents our being
able to do what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and every pain
avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty or the
obligations of business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be
repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these
matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other
greater pleasures, or else he endures pains to avoid worse pains.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor
incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis
nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat.
Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu
fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in
culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

{% include carousel.html items=page.oneImageCarousel %}

Rrow itself, let it be sorrow; let him love it; let him pursue it, ishing for
its acquisitiendum. Because he will ab hold, unless but through concer, and also
of those who resist. Now a puresnore disturbeded sum dust. He ejjnoyes, in order
that somewon, also with a severe one, unless of life. May a cusstums offficer
somewon nothing of a poison-filled. Until, from a twho, twhochaffinch may also
pursue it, not even a lump. But as twho, as a tank; a proverb, yeast; or else
they tinscribe nor. Yet yet dewlap bed. Twho may be, let him love fellows of a
polecat. Now amour,the, twhose being, drunk, yet twhitch and, an enclosed
valley’s always a laugh. In acquisitiendum the Furies are Earth; in (he takes
up) a lump vehicles bien.

(The text was copied from [https://lipsum.com][1] and [https://loremipsum.io][2]
whilst the media copied was taken from [https://github.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files][3])

[1]: https://lipsum.com
     "Lorem Ipsum - All the facts - Lipsum generator"
[2]: https://loremipsum.io
     "Lorem Ipsum – Generator, Origins and Meaning"
[3]: https://github.com/mediaelement/mediaelement-files
     "Sample media files (MP4, WebM, Ogv, MP3, etc.) for the MediaElement.js library"
